  2022 Austrian presidential election

Contributors to Wikimedia projects
21–27 minut
------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

2022 Austrian presidential election
------------------------------------------------------------------------
← 2016 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2016_Austrian_presidential_election> 	*9 October 2022* 	2028 →

Turnout	65.19% (Decrease3.31pp)
  	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Alexander_Van_der_Bellen_(13-07-2021)_(cropped).jpg> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Walter_Rosenkranz.jpg> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Marco_Pogo_in_Graz.3_(cropped).jpg>
Candidate 	*Alexander Van der Bellen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alexander_Van_der_Bellen>* 	Walter Rosenkranz <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Walter_Rosenkranz> 	Dominik Wlazny <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Dominik_Wlazny>
Party 	Greens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Greens_%E2%80%93_The_Green_Alternative> 	FPÖ <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_Party_of_Austria> 	BIER <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Beer_Party_(Austria)>
Popular vote 	*2,299,590* 	717,097 	337,010
Percentage 	*56.69%* 	17.68% 	8.31%
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:3x4.svg> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Geraldgrosz.jpg>
Candidate 	Tassilo Wallentin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tassilo_Wallentin> 	Gerald Grosz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Gerald_Grosz>
Party 	Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Independent_politician> 	Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Independent_politician>
Popular vote 	327,214 	225,942
Percentage 	8.07% 	5.57%

------------------------------------------------------------------------
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:2022_Austrian_presidential_election.svg>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Austria> before
election*

Alexander Van der Bellen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alexander_Van_der_Bellen>
Greens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Greens_%E2%80%93_The_Green_Alternative>

	*Elected President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Austria>*

Alexander Van der Bellen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alexander_Van_der_Bellen>
Greens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Greens_%E2%80%93_The_Green_Alternative>

Presidential elections were held in Austria <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Austria> on 9 October 2022.^[1] <#cite_note-1> Incumbent Alexander
Van der Bellen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Van_der_Bellen>
from the Greens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Greens_%E2%80%93_The_Green_Alternative> was eligible for one more
term and ran for re-election.^[2] <#cite_note-2> About 6.36 million
voting-age citizens were eligible to vote.

Final results showed that Van der Bellen was re-elected in the first
round with 57% of the vote. Van der Bellen won in all of the 116
administrative districts of Austria. Carinthia <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carinthia> was the only state in which he finished
below 50% of the vote. Freedom Party of Austria <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_Party_of_Austria> (FPÖ) candidate Walter
Rosenkranz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Rosenkranz> placed
second with 18% of the votes, far short of what his party colleague
Norbert Hofer <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norbert_Hofer> received in
2016. Three other right-wing candidates (Tassilo Wallentin <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tassilo_Wallentin>, Gerald Grosz <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerald_Grosz> and Michael Brunner) tapped into the
FPÖ voter pool and kept Rosenkranz below 20%. In third place - the best
independent candidate without the backing of a parliamentary party - was
artist, entrepreneur and medical doctor Dominik Wlazny <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominik_Wlazny> ("Marco Pogo") from the Beer Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Beer_Party_(Austria)> with 8% of the
votes. In Vienna, Wlazny finished second behind Van der Bellen and ahead
of Rosenkranz.^[3] <#cite_note-3> ^[4] <#cite_note-4>

Had no candidate received a majority of valid votes cast, a runoff would
have been held on 6 November.^[5] <#cite_note-5>


    Electoral system[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=1>]

The President of Austria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
President_of_Austria> is directly elected for a six-year term by the
two-round system <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-round_system>; if no
candidate receives more than 50% of valid votes cast in the first round,
then a second ballot occurs in which only those two candidates who
received the greatest number of votes in the first round may stand.^[6]
<#cite_note-BMI-6> The constitution <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Constitution_of_Austria> grants the president the power to appoint the
Chancellor <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chancellor_of_Austria> and, by
extension, federal cabinet ministers, Supreme Court justices, military
officers, and most major bureaucrats. The president may dissolve the
National Council <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Council_(Austria)>. In practice, however, the president acts as
a figurehead <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Figurehead>.

Austrian citizens who have reached the age of 16 by the end of the day
of the election and who are not excluded from voting by a judicial
conviction are entitled to vote. For the right to stand for election,
the completion of the 35th year is required. As a prerequisite for
running as a candidate for Federal President, at least 6.000
declarations of support (= valid signatures of eligible voters) must be
submitted to the federal electoral authority set up at the Ministry of
the Interior together with the formal candidate declaration. At the same
time, a candidate fee of €3.600 must be paid. Potential candidates were
able to start collecting and submitting signatures on 9 August 2022
("Stichtag"). The last deadline for submission was the 37th day before
the election day (2 September 2022) at 17:00. The Federal Election
Commission at the Interior Ministry announced the official list of
qualified candidates on 7 September 2022, after verification of the
submitted signatures and other required documents.


    Date[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=2>]

Up until 2016, presidential elections were held during spring – but
because the 2016 election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2016_Austrian_presidential_election> runoff had to be repeated in
December by Constitutional Court order, the date of the next election in
2022 was pushed back by about half a year as well. The exact date for
the new election will be set by a joint parliamentary commission during
spring/summer 2022 and the election must be held roughly three months
after that date was set because of calendar reasons/deadlines.^[6]
<#cite_note-BMI-6> There is no definitive date as to when the election
can take place in 2022, the only requirement is that the President-elect
has to be sworn in by 26 January 2023. However, it has never happened
that Austrian elections were scheduled for Christmas or New Year (or
during summer school holidays between early July and mid-September),
which means that – according to media consensus – it will definitely
happen in 2022, most likely during the fall. On 26 June 2022, the
Austrian government announced that 9 October 2022 was selected as
election day, with a runoff on 6 November 2022 if needed.


    Candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=3>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ballot_paper_-
_Austrian_presidential_election_2022_first_ballot.png>
Ballot paper for the first round of voting


      Candidates on the ballot[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=4>]

  * Michael Brunner <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=Michael_Brunner_(politician)&action=edit&redlink=1> [de
    <https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Brunner_(Politiker,_1960)>] –
    lawyer, MFG <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    MFG_Austria_%E2%80%93_People_Freedom_Fundamental_Rights> party leader
  * Gerald Grosz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerald_Grosz> – TV
    commentator, businessman, author and former chairman of the BZÖ
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alliance_for_the_Future_of_Austria>
    (2013–2015)^[7] <#cite_note-7>
  * Walter Rosenkranz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Rosenkranz>
    – Ombudsman <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ombudsman> of the
    National Council, former FPÖ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    FP%C3%96> member of the National Council, former FPÖ group leader in
    the National Council, former leader of the Lower Austria <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lower_Austria> FPÖ^[8] <#cite_note-8>
  * Heinrich Staudinger <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=Heinrich_Staudinger&action=edit&redlink=1> [de <https://
    de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heinrich_Staudinger>] – business owner, shoe
    manufacturer
  * Alexander Van der Bellen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Alexander_Van_der_Bellen> – President of Austria (2017–present),
    former party leader of The Greens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_Greens_%E2%80%93_The_Green_Alternative> (1997–2008)
  * Tassilo Wallentin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tassilo_Wallentin>
    – lawyer, columnist and author^[9] <#cite_note-9>
  * Dominik Wlazny <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominik_Wlazny> (alias
    Marco Pogo) – medical doctor and frontman of Turbobier <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turbobier> [de <https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Turbobier>], leader of the Beer Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/The_Beer_Party_(Austria)> (2014–present)^[10] <#cite_note-10> 

  *

    Gerald Grosz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Geraldgrosz.jpg>

  *

    Walter Rosenkranz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    File:Walter_Rosenkranz.jpg>

  *

    Heinrich Staudinger [de] <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    File:B%C3%BCrgerrechtstattBankenrechtWien04_(cropped).jpg>

  *

    Alexander Van der Bellen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    File:Alexander_Van_der_Bellen_(13-07-2021)_(cropped).jpg>

  *

    Dominik Wlazny (Marco Pogo) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    File:Marco_Pogo_in_Graz.2.jpg>


      Earlier candidate speculation[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=5>]

President of the National Council Wolfgang Sobotka <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolfgang_Sobotka> of the ÖVP has ruled out
running.^[11] <#cite_note-11>

The SPÖ was previously undecided about whether they should run a
candidate.^[12] <#cite_note-12> In November 2020, federal chairwoman
Pamela Rendi-Wagner <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pamela_Rendi-Wagner>
stressed that a decision had not been made, but noted that the SPÖ has
never challenged an incumbent president. She also ruled out running
herself.^[13] <#cite_note-13> Second President of the National Council
Doris Bures <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doris_Bures> and Mayor of
Vienna Michael Ludwig <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Ludwig>
both stated that the party should support Van der Bellen if he chooses
to run for a second term.^[14] <#cite_note-14> ^[15] <#cite_note-15>
Tyrolean branch leader Georg Dornauer suggested that Bures herself
should stand for election, even if Van der Bellen runs again.^[16]
<#cite_note-16>

Norbert Hofer <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norbert_Hofer> of the
Freedom Party of Austria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Freedom_Party_of_Austria> (FPÖ), who was runner-up to Van der Bellen in
2016, has made conflicting statements about his intention to seek the
presidency for a second time. In 2018, he stated that he plans to run in
2022.^[17] <#cite_note-17> In 2020, he stated that he would not run if
Van der Bellen sought re-election, but that he would if Rudolf Anschober
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rudolf_Anschober> was the Greens
nominee.^[18] <#cite_note-18> Anschober himself subsequently ruled out
running.^[19] <#cite_note-19> In February 2021, Hofer said it was "not
unlikely" that he would run, and that he would make the decision a year
in advance of the election.^[20] <#cite_note-20> After Hofer's
resignation as party leader in June, he stated he was unsure whether he
would run for president. His successor Herbert Kickl <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herbert_Kickl> voiced his confidence that Hofer
would still run, however.^[21] <#cite_note-21> On 13 May 2022, Hofer
declared that he will not run for president in the fall.^[22]
<#cite_note-22>


    Campaign[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=6>]


      Early campaign[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=7>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Wien_-
_Hofburg,_Leopoldinischer_Trakt.JPG>
The official residence of the Austrian President since 1946: The /
Leopoldine Wing/ of the Hofburg <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Hofburg#Leopoldine_Wing> in Vienna.

On 22 May 2022, President Alexander Van der Bellen <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Van_der_Bellen> announced his candidacy
for re-election.^[23] <#cite_note-23> Opinion polls indicate high
approval ratings for President Van der Bellen. A May 2022 survey showed
that 63% of voters are satisfied or very satisfied with Van der Bellen's
presidency.^[24] <#cite_note-24> Another poll at the end of May had his
approval rating at 59%, with 34% disapproving.^[25] <#cite_note-25>

The two major parties, the Austrian People's Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_People%27s_Party> (ÖVP) and the Social
Democratic Party of Austria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Social_Democratic_Party_of_Austria> (SPÖ), traditionally refrain from
challenging a popular incumbent president if they choose to seek re-
election. Following President Van der Bellen's announcement to run for
re-election on 22 May 2022, the SPÖ announced that they will not run a
candidate against him, instead they will actively endorse and support
his campaign for re-election.^[26] <#cite_note-26>

On 23 May 2022, the governing party ÖVP announced that they will not run
a candidate on their own but did not endorse the candidacy of Van der
Bellen for re-election, instead wishing him "all the best". The Governor
of Tyrol, Günther Platter, endorsed Van der Bellen.^[27] <#cite_note-27>

NEOS – The New Austria and Liberal Forum <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
NEOS_%E2%80%93_The_New_Austria_and_Liberal_Forum> also announced on 22
May 2022 that they are endorsing and supporting Van der Bellen in his
re-election effort.^[28] <#cite_note-28>

The Greens – The Green Alternative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Greens_%E2%80%93_The_Green_Alternative>, of which Van der Bellen was
a long-time leader, also endorsed Van der Bellen after his announcement
to run for re-election.^[29] <#cite_note-29> While both the SPÖ and NEOS
did not support Van der Bellen financially, the Green Party did so with
at least €500.000 in campaign money.

The opposition Freedom Party of Austria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Freedom_Party_of_Austria> announced at an early stage that they will
definitely run a candidate against Van der Bellen, while the new party
MFG Austria – People Freedom Fundamental Rights <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
MFG_Austria_%E2%80%93_People_Freedom_Fundamental_Rights> said they are
thinking about a candidacy against him. In June 2022, MFG party leader
Michael Brunner announced his candidacy for President.


      Intensive campaign period[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=8>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:P5650041_(52372790197).jpg>
President Alexander Van der Bellen at the United Nations in New York
City on 20 September 2022, together with Austrian Chancellor Karl
Nehammer and Austrian Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg

After the announcement of the 7 official candidates on 7 September, the
intensive campaign period started. President Alexander Van der Bellen
(Green Party) decided not to participate in any TV debates with his
challengers, citing that the "integrity of the office should not be
harmed" and "his predecessors as President who ran for re-election also
did not participate in TV debates". Some of Van der Bellen's opponents,
such as Walter Rosenkranz (FPÖ) and Gerald Grosz (Independent, ex-FPÖ,
ex-BZÖ) attacked him for his refusal to debate them and called him a
"coward".

President Van der Bellen instead focused on a billboard and Social Media
campaign with slogans such as "The safe choice during stormy times." or
"We are stronger together." or "You don't gamble with Austria." The
President also used meetings with international leaders and visits to
international organizations such as the United Nations in New York City
to increase his profile ahead of the election and to appear statesmanlike.

Walter Rosenkranz also ran several billboard and Social Media campaigns
with slogans like "Let's take back our freedoms." or "Uncompromisingly
for Austria." or "Serving in the interest of the people, not the elites
and powerful." The FPÖ also repeatedly mocked President Van der Bellen
as "Van der Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biden>".

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Marco_Pogo_in_Graz.jpg>
Dominik Wlazny (alias Marco Pogo) campaigning in Graz on 23 September 2022

Dominik Wlazny (alias Marco Pogo) from the Beer Party launched a Social
Media parody ad, mocking the campaign team of Alexander Van der Bellen,
insinuating that the Van der Bellen camp is "afraid of Wlazny and his
proposals." Later, Wlazny launched several billboards in which he
prioritizes the fight against child poverty, violence against women,
better pay for women, a rise in pensions, more renewable energy, better
animal rights protection and a mandatory skills test for new cabinet
members.

Gerald Grosz portrayed himself as a Donald Trump <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>-style presidential candidate,
wearing a red MAGA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Make_America_Great_Again> hat ("Make Austria Grosz Again"), with his
last name Grosz resembling the German word "groß" for "great". Grosz
attacked Van der Bellen and the Austrian ÖVP-Green government repeatedly
for various failures on the Russia-Ukraine War, the rising inflation and
electricity prices etc. His main priority if elected President would be
to dismiss the current Austrian government immediately, install a new
cabinet of his own thinking, who would then call new parliamentary
elections. His main campaign slogan is "Vote for Gerald Grosz and you
get rid of Van der Bellen and the current government."

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Praesidentenwahl_2022_van_der_bellen.jpg>
Alexander Van der Bellen campaign poster

Like Rosenkranz and Grosz, Tassilo Wallentin and Michael Brunner also
hail from the radical right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radical_right_(Europe)>. In his editorials for the /Kronen Zeitung
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kronen_Zeitung>/ before becoming an
official candidate, Wallentin repeatedly wrote that immigration in
general and requests for asylum must be limited to zero, especially from
Muslim-majority countries and warned that Muslims will be close to a
majority in Austria in 20 years.

Brunner repeatedly warned of vaccination damages from COVID-19 vaccines
and attacked the government on their policies during the pandemic. With
the COVID-19 pandemic decreasing as a major topic during the campaign
for President, Brunner followed the other candidates in focusing on
rising inflation, electricity and gas prices. He said he favours the
elimination of EU sanctions against Russia ("They are not working and
harm the Austrian population.") and the full implementation of
Neutrality in Austria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Declaration_of_Neutrality> again, which in his opinion is currently not
the case. He would also immediately dismiss the current Austrian
government if elected President.

Heinrich Staudinger calls for poverty reduction, pacifism and the
decrease in military spending and the focus of the military on disaster
aid rather than engaging in conflicts. He strongly opposes increasing
military spending to 2-3% of GDP like candidates Grosz and Rosenkranz.
He strongly advocates help for immigrants and asylum seekers (his shoe
manufacturing company employs numerous immigrants) and supports regional
production methods with natural products and in line with the
environment. He strongly supports measures to protect the environment
and climate. He was vaccination-sceptic during the Covid pandemic. As
President, he would make his first official state trip to the Democratic
Republic of Congo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Republic_of_Congo>.


    Opinion polls[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=9>]

Polling firm 	Fieldwork date 	Sample
size 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Alexander_Van_der_Bellen_(13-07-2021)_(cropped).jpg> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Walter_Rosenkranz.jpg> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Turbobier_(12)_(cropped).jpg> 		<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Geraldgrosz.jpg> 		<https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/File:B%C3%BCrgerrechtstattBankenrechtWien04_(cropped).jpg> 	Lead
Van der Bellen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Van_der_Bellen>
Greens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Greens_%E2%80%93_The_Green_Alternative> 	Rosenkranz <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Rosenkranz>
FPÖ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_Party_of_Austria> 	Wlazny
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marco_Pogo>
BIER <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Beer_Party_(Austria)> 	Wallentin
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tassilo_Wallentin>
Indep. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> 	Grosz
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerald_Grosz>
Indep. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> 	Brunner
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Michael_Brunner_(politician)&action=edit&redlink=1>
MFG <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
MFG_Austria_%E2%80%93_People_Freedom_Fundamental_Rights> 	Staudinger
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Heinrich_Staudinger&action=edit&redlink=1>
Indep. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician>
						
INSA / eXXpress <https://exxpress.at/umfrage-thriller-vor-hofburg-wahl-
van-der-bellen-muss-bis-zur-letzten-minute-zittern/> 	4–6 Oct 2022 	1000
	*48.5* 	14.5 	12.5 	9 	9 	3 	3.5 	34
OGM / Kurier <https://kurier.at/politik/inland/hofburg-fuer-alexander-
van-der-bellen-wird-es-nicht-arschknapp/402166605> 	23–28 Sep 2022 	1702
	*58* 	16 	8 	9 	5 	3 	1 	42
Market-Lazarsfeld / ÖSTERREICH <https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=Os6khHMszWk> 	26–27 Sep 2022 	1000 	*56* 	16 	9 	8 	6 	3 	2 	40
Market-Lazarsfeld / ÖSTERREICH <https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=tlCJHQ8gaoA> 	19–20 Sep 2022 	1000 	*51* 	16 	12 	9 	7 	4 	1 	35
Unique Research / Profil / Heute <https://www.profil.at/oesterreich/
umfrage-zur-bundespraesidentenwahl-2022-van-der-bellens-vorsprung-geht-
zurueck/402149514> 	7–15 Sep 2022 	1600 	*59* 	13 	7 	8 	9 	2 	2 	46
Market-Lazarsfeld / ÖSTERREICH <https://www.oe24.at/oesterreich/politik/
hofburgwahl/van-der-bellen-legt-zu-harter-fight-um-platz-2/530312467> 	
12–13 Sep 2022 	1000 	*51* 	14 	13 	9 	7 	5 	1 	37
Market-Lazarsfeld / ÖSTERREICH <https://www.oe24.at/oesterreich/politik/
hofburgwahl/umfrage-van-der-bellen-erstmals-unter-50-prozent/529668174>
	5–6 Sep 2022 	1000 	*45* 	18 	14 	10 	6 	4 	3 	27


    Number of eligible voters[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
    index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=10>]

According to the Ministry of the Interior, 6,363,336 citizens are
entitled to vote – 61,113 of them residing abroad.^[30] <#cite_note-30>
Compared to the first ballot in 2016, the number of those entitled to
vote has fallen slightly (6,382,507 – 42,830 of whom reside abroad).
After the end of the objection period and the correction process, the
final number of eligible voters was published on 7 October.


    Number of absentee ballots issued[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
    index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=11>]

After the official candidates were announced on 7 September, the
official ballot papers were printed. The requested absentee ballots were
sent out by the municipalities from 13 September. The last possible date
for the written application for an absentee ballot being 5 October,
while the last possible date for a personal application and collection
at voters' main place of residence was 7 October.

The number of absentee ballots issued was announced on the evening of 7
October, with 958,136 absentee ballots issued – 60,264 of them to
eligible voters living abroad. Accordingly, 15.1% of those entitled to
vote applied for an absentee ballot.^[31] <#cite_note-31> In comparison,
a total of 641,975 absentee ballots were issued before the first ballot
in 2016 – 39,079 of them to eligible voters living abroad. Compared to
this year, 10.1% of those entitled to vote applied for an absentee
ballot ahead of the first ballot in 2016.

Absentee ballots have to be received by the district election
commissions on election day, no later than poll closing time (17:00), to
be counted. The Austrian Post offered a one-time special emptying of all
public mailboxes in Austria on Saturday at 09:00 so that the absentee
ballots could be delivered on time by Sunday. Absentee ballots will be
counted on 10 October.


    Results[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=12>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Bundespr%C3%A4sidentenwahl_%C3%96sterreich_2022_Gemeinden.svg>
Winners by city/town/municipality. Green: Van der Bellen, Blue: Rosenkranz

Candidate	Party	Votes	%
	Alexander Van der Bellen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alexander_Van_der_Bellen>	The Greens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Greens_%E2%80%93_The_Green_Alternative>	2,299,590	56.69
	Walter Rosenkranz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Rosenkranz>	
Freedom Party of Austria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Freedom_Party_of_Austria>	717,097	17.68
	Dominik Wlazny <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominik_Wlazny>	The Beer
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Beer_Party_(Austria)>	337,010	8.31
	Tassilo Wallentin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tassilo_Wallentin>	
Independent	327,214	8.07
	Gerald Grosz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerald_Grosz>	Independent	
225,942	5.57
	Michael Brunner <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Michael_Brunner_(Politiker,_1960)&action=edit&redlink=1> [de
<https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Brunner_(Politiker,_1960)>]	MFG
Austria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
MFG_Austria_%E2%80%93_People_Freedom_Fundamental_Rights>	85,465	2.11
	Heinrich Staudinger <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Heinrich_Staudinger&action=edit&redlink=1> [de <https://
de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heinrich_Staudinger>]	Independent	64,411	1.59
Total	4,056,729	100.00
Valid votes	4,056,729	97.80
Invalid/blank votes	91,353	2.20
Total votes	4,148,082	100.00
Registered voters/turnout	6,363,336	65.19
Source: Ministry of the Interior^[32] <#cite_note-32>

The results were certified and made official by the Interior Ministry on
17 October 2022.


    References[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=13>]

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-1>* red, ORF at/Agenturen (2022-06-26). "9. Oktober:
    Termin für Hofburg-Wahl steht" <https://orf.at/stories/3273108/>. /
    news.ORF.at/ (in German). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220627082554/https://orf.at/stories/3273108/> from the original on
    2022-06-27. Retrieved 2022-06-30.
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-2>* "The Federal President" <https://www.austria.org/
    the-federal-president>. /Austrian Embassy Washington/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20210814141124/https://www.austria.org/
    the-federal-president> from the original on 2021-08-14. Retrieved
    2021-08-29.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-3>* "Austria elections: Van der Bellen set to win
    presidential race" <https://www.dw.com/en/austria-elections-van-der-
    bellen-set-to-win-presidential-race/a-63382240>. /Deutsche Welle
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deutsche_Welle>/. 9 October 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221010001939/https://
    www.dw.com/en/austria-elections-van-der-bellen-set-to-win-
    presidential-race/a-63382240> from the original on 10 October 2022.
    Retrieved 10 October 2022.
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-4>* "Re-elected Van der Bellen: "Grateful for avoiding
    the runoff"" <https://orf.at/stories/3288917/>. /ORF <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ORF_(broadcaster)>/ (in German). 9 October
    2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221010000533/https://
    orf.at/stories/3288917/> from the original on 10 October 2022.
    Retrieved 10 October 2022.
 5. *^ <#cite_ref-5>* Kabelka, Laura (2022-06-28). "Austrian
    presidential candidate pool offers establishment alternatives"
    <https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/austrian-
    presidential-candidate-pool-offers-establishment-alternatives/>. /
    www.euractiv.com/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220629170447/https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/
    austrian-presidential-candidate-pool-offers-establishment-
    alternatives/> from the original on 2022-06-29. Retrieved 2022-06-30.
 6. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-BMI_6-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-BMI_6-1>
    "Federal presidential election, overview" <https://www.bmi.gv.at/
    412/Bundespraesidentenwahlen/>. /Federal Ministry of the Interior
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ministry_of_the_Interior_(Austria)>/
    (in German). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211203094824/
    https://www.bmi.gv.at/412/Bundespraesidentenwahlen/> from the
    original on 3 December 2021. Retrieved 3 December 2021.
 7. *^ <#cite_ref-7>* "Hofburg-Wahl: Grosz kandidiert" <https://orf.at/
    stories/3272204/>. /orf.at/ (in German). 21 June 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20220621100737/https://orf.at/stories/
    3272204/> from the original on 21 June 2022. Retrieved 21 June 2022.
 8. *^ <#cite_ref-8>* "BP-Wahl: Kickl schlug angeblich Walter Rosenkranz
    vor" <https://orf.at/stories/3275830/>. /orf.at/ (in German). 12
    July 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220712170324/
    https://orf.at/stories/3275830/> from the original on 12 July 2022.
    Retrieved 12 July 2022.
 9. *^ <#cite_ref-9>* "FPÖ will Krone-Kolumnist Wallentin als Hofburg-
    Kandidat" <https://www.oe24.at/oesterreich/politik/fpoe-will-krone-
    kolumnist-wallentin-als-hofburg-kandidat/521342104>. /oe24.at/ (in
    German). 8 June 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220608154723/https://www.oe24.at/oesterreich/politik/fpoe-will-
    krone-kolumnist-wallentin-als-hofburg-kandidat/521342104> from the
    original on 8 June 2022. Retrieved 8 June 2022.
10. *^ <#cite_ref-10>* "Marco Pogo will Bundespräsident werden"
    <https://wien.orf.at/stories/3127050/>. /ORF <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ORF_(broadcaster)>/ (in German). 23 October
    2021. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211023175847/https://
    wien.orf.at/stories/3127050/> from the original on 23 October 2021.
    Retrieved 23 October 2021.
11. *^ <#cite_ref-11>* "Federal President: Sobotka does not want to run
    for office" <https://orf.at/stories/3153687/>. /ORF <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ORF_(broadcaster)>/ (in German). 9 February
    2020. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211203094827/https://
    orf.at/stories/3153687/> from the original on 3 December 2021.
    Retrieved 3 December 2021.
12. *^ <#cite_ref-12>* "Federal President: Too early to make a decision,
    say SPÖ state associations" <https://orf.at/stories/3191821/>. /ORF
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ORF_(broadcaster)>/ (in German). 30
    November 2020. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211203094824/
    https://orf.at/stories/3191821/> from the original on 3 December
    2021. Retrieved 3 December 2021.
13. *^ <#cite_ref-13>* ""Not in the life plan" Rendi-Wagner rules out
    Hofburg candidacy" <https://www.kleinezeitung.at/politik/
    innenpolitik/5910944/>. /Kleine Zeitung <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Kleine_Zeitung>/ (in German). 13 December 2020. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20211203094829/https://
    www.kleinezeitung.at/politik/innenpolitik/5910944/> from the
    original on 3 December 2021. Retrieved 3 December 2021.
14. *^ <#cite_ref-14>* "Hofburg 2022: SPÖ is considering supporting Van
    der Bellen" <https://kurier.at/politik/inland/hofburg-2022-spoe-
    ueberlegt-van-der-bellen-zu-unterstuetzen/401112618>. /Kurier
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurier>/ (in German). 28 November
    2020. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211203094822/https://
    kurier.at/politik/inland/hofburg-2022-spoe-ueberlegt-van-der-bellen-
    zu-unterstuetzen/401112618> from the original on 3 December 2021.
    Retrieved 3 December 2021.
15. *^ <#cite_ref-15>* "Hofburg candidacy Ludwig: SPÖ should support Van
    der Bellen" <https://www.kleinezeitung.at/politik/innenpolitik/
    5957920/>. /Kleine Zeitung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Kleine_Zeitung>/ (in German). 27 March 2021. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20211203094822/https://www.kleinezeitung.at/
    politik/innenpolitik/5957920/> from the original on 3 December 2021.
    Retrieved 3 December 2021.
16. *^ <#cite_ref-16>* "Dornauer for Bures as the SPÖ's Hofburg
    candidate" <https://www.oe24.at/oesterreich/politik/dornauer-fuer-
    bures-als-hofburg-kandidatin-der-spoe/459151736>. /Österreich
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%96sterreich_(newspaper)>/ (in
    German). 28 December 2020. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20211203100324/https://www.oe24.at/oesterreich/politik/dornauer-
    fuer-bures-als-hofburg-kandidatin-der-spoe/459151736> from the
    original on 3 December 2021. Retrieved 3 December 2021.
17. *^ <#cite_ref-17>* "Hofer wants to run for president again in 2022"
    <https://www.derstandard.at/story/2000089321974/hofer-will-2022-
    noch-einmal-bundespraesident-werden>. /Der Standard <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Der_Standard>/ (in German). 14 October 2018.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211203094822/https://
    www.derstandard.at/story/2000089321974/hofer-will-2022-noch-einmal-
    bundespraesident-werden> from the original on 3 December 2021.
    Retrieved 3 December 2021.
18. *^ <#cite_ref-18>* "Hofer in the "summer talk": FPÖ will not
    challenge the Vienna election" <https://orf.at/stories/3177814/>. /
    ORF <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ORF_(broadcaster)>/ (in German).
    17 August 2020. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20211203094825/https://orf.at/stories/3177814/> from the original on
    3 December 2021. Retrieved 3 December 2021.
19. *^ <#cite_ref-19>* "Anschober does not want to become president and
    names four factors for corona traffic lights" <https://
    www.derstandard.at/story/2000119518080/anschober-will-nicht-
    bundespraesident-werden-und-nennt-vier-faktoren-fuer>. /Der Standard
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Der_Standard>/ (in German). 21 August
    2020. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211203094823/https://
    www.derstandard.at/story/2000119518080/anschober-will-nicht-
    bundespraesident-werden-und-nennt-vier-faktoren-fuer> from the
    original on 3 December 2021. Retrieved 3 December 2021.
20. *^ <#cite_ref-20>* "Hofer: "Not unlikely that I will compete""
    <https://www.krone.at/2332482>. /Kronen Zeitung <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kronen_Zeitung>/ (in German). 2 February 2021.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211203094823/https://
    www.krone.at/2332482> from the original on 3 December 2021.
    Retrieved 3 December 2021.
21. *^ <#cite_ref-21>* ""I will stay 3rd President of the National
    Council"" <https://www.puls24.at/news/politik/kickl-im-puls-24-
    interview-identitaere-seien-unterstuetzenswertes-projekt/236299>. /
    Puls24.at/ (in German). 9 June 2021. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20211203100330/https://www.puls24.at/news/
    politik/kickl-im-puls-24-interview-identitaere-seien-
    unterstuetzenswertes-projekt/236299> from the original on 3 December
    2021. Retrieved 3 December 2021.
22. *^ <#cite_ref-22>* ""Hofer will heuer nicht bei Hofburg-Wahl
    antreten"" <https://orf.at/stories/3265619/>. /orf.at/ (in German).
    13 May 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220513202806/
    https://orf.at/stories/3265619/> from the original on 13 May 2022.
    Retrieved 13 May 2022.
23. *^ <#cite_ref-23>* "Van der Bellen kandidiert erneut" <https://
    orf.at/stories/3267238/>. /orf.at/ (in German). 22 May 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220522141939/https://orf.at/
    stories/3267238/> from the original on 22 May 2022. Retrieved 22 May
    2022.
24. *^ <#cite_ref-24>* "Wiederkandidatur: Van der Bellen startet mit 63
    Prozent in den Wahlkampf" <https://kurier.at/politik/inland/
    wiederkandidatur-van-der-bellen-startet-mit-63-prozent-in-den-
    wahlkampf/402016524>. /kurier.at/ (in German). 22 May 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20220522143924/https://kurier.at/
    politik/inland/wiederkandidatur-van-der-bellen-startet-mit-63-
    prozent-in-den-wahlkampf/402016524> from the original on 22 May
    2022. Retrieved 22 May 2022.
25. *^ <#cite_ref-25>* "Den Blauen ist Van der Bellen nicht grün genug"
    <https://www.heute.at/s/den-blauen-ist-van-der-bellen-nicht-gruen-
    genug-100209477>. /heute.at/ (in German). 30 May 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20220530043707/https://www.heute.at/s/
    den-blauen-ist-van-der-bellen-nicht-gruen-genug-100209477> from the
    original on 30 May 2022. Retrieved 11 June 2022.
26. *^ <#cite_ref-26>* "Bundespräsident Van der Bellen tritt bei Wahl im
    Herbst erneut an" <https://www.tt.com/artikel/30820993/spoe-will-
    bundespraesident-van-der-bellen-bei-wiederkandidatur-
    unterstuetzen>. /tt.com/ (in German). 22 May 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20220522132448/https://www.tt.com/
    artikel/30820993/spoe-will-bundespraesident-van-der-bellen-bei-
    wiederkandidatur-unterstuetzen> from the original on 22 May 2022.
    Retrieved 22 May 2022.
27. *^ <#cite_ref-27>* "Nehammer: "Es wird keinen ÖVP-Kandidaten geben""
    <https://www.krone.at/2715521>. /krone.at/ (in German). 23 May 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220523171659/https://
    www.krone.at/2715521> from the original on 23 May 2022. Retrieved 23
    May 2022.
28. *^ <#cite_ref-28>* "Van der Bellens zweite Kandidatur fix: So
    reagieren die Parteien" <https://www.puls24.at/news/politik/van-der-
    bellens-zweite-kandidatur-fix-so-reagieren-die-parteien/265451>. /
    puls24.at/ (in German). 22 May 2022. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20220522153118/https://www.puls24.at/news/
    politik/van-der-bellens-zweite-kandidatur-fix-so-reagieren-die-
    parteien/265451> from the original on 22 May 2022. Retrieved 22 May
    2022.
29. *^ <#cite_ref-29>* "Breite Unterstützung für Van der Bellen"
    <https://orf.at/stories/3267307/>. /orf.at/ (in German). 22 May
    2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220523062411/https://
    orf.at/stories/3267307/> from the original on 23 May 2022. Retrieved
    23 May 2022.
30. *^ <#cite_ref-30>* Bundeswahlbehörde: Endgültige Zahl der
    Wahlberechtigten (in German) <https://www.bmi.gv.at/412/
    Bundespraesidentenwahlen/Bundespraesidentenwahl_2022/
    start.aspx#wahlberechtigte> Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220720143852/https://www.bmi.gv.at/412/Bundespraesidentenwahlen/
    Bundespraesidentenwahl_2022/start.aspx#wahlberechtigte> 2022-07-20
    at the Wayback Machine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>.
31. *^ <#cite_ref-31>* Bundeswahlbehörde: Zahl der ausgestellten
    Wahlkarten (in German) <https://www.bmi.gv.at/412/
    Bundespraesidentenwahlen/Bundespraesidentenwahl_2022/
    start.aspx#briefwahl> Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220720143852/https://www.bmi.gv.at/412/Bundespraesidentenwahlen/
    Bundespraesidentenwahl_2022/start.aspx#briefwahl> 2022-07-20 at the
    Wayback Machine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>.
32. *^ <#cite_ref-32>* "BUNDESPRÄSIDENTENWAHL 2022" <https://
    bundeswahlen.gv.at/2022/> [FEDERAL PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION 2022] (in
    German). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221019142448/
    https://bundeswahlen.gv.at/2022/> from the original on 19 October 2022.


    External links[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_Austrian_presidential_election&action=edit&section=14>]

  * Official information website for the 2022 Presidential Election
    <https://www.bmi.gv.at/412/Bundespraesidentenwahlen/
    Bundespraesidentenwahl_2022/start.aspx> - Ministry of the Interior
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ministry_of_the_Interior_(Austria)>

Candidate websites

  * Official campaign website of Michael Brunner <https://www.mfg-oe.at/
    bundespraesident-kandidat-dr-michael-brunner/>
  * Official campaign website of Gerald Grosz <https://www.geraldgrosz.at/>
  * Official campaign website of Walter Rosenkranz <https://www.walter-
    rosenkranz.at/>
  * Official campaign website of Heinrich Staudinger <https://www.heini-
    praesident.at/>
  * Official campaign website of Alexander Van der Bellen <https://
    www.vanderbellen.at/>
  * Official campaign website of Tassilo Wallentin <https://www.tassilo-
    wallentin.at/>
  * Official campaign website of Dominik Wlazny <https://
    www.bierpartei.eu/mei-praesident/>

