  2022 South Korean presidential election

Contributors to Wikimedia projects
65–82 minut
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2022 South Korean presidential election
------------------------------------------------------------------------
← 2017 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2017_South_Korean_presidential_election> 	*9 March 2022* 	2027 →

Opinion polls <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Opinion_polling_for_the_2022_South_Korean_presidential_election>
Registered	44,197,692
Turnout	77.08% (Decrease0.15pp)^[1] <#cite_note-1>
  	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:South_Korea_President_Yoon_Suk_Yeol_portrait_(crop).jpg> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Lee_Jae-
myung_presidential_candidate_portrait.jpg>
Nominee 	*Yoon Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol>* 	
Lee Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung> 	
Party 	People Power <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)> 	Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea>
Popular vote 	*16,394,815* 	16,147,738
Percentage 	*48.56%* 	47.83%

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
2022_Republic_of_Korea_Presidential_Election,_Municipal-
level_divisions.svg>

Results by municipal-level divisionsResults by provincial-level
divisionsShow all

------------------------------------------------------------------------
*President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_South_Korea>
before election*

Moon Jae-in <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_Jae-in>
Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea>

	*Elected President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
President_of_South_Korea>*

Yoon Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol>
People Power <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)>

Presidential elections <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Presidential_elections_in_South_Korea> were held in South Korea
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Korea> on 9 March 2022. Under the
South Korean constitution <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Constitution_of_South_Korea>, presidents <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
President_of_South_Korea> are restricted to a single five-year term,
meaning that incumbent president Moon Jae-in <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Moon_Jae-in> was ineligible to run for a second term. Opposition
candidate Yoon Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol> of
the People Power Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)> won the election,^[2] <#cite_note-2>
defeating candidate Lee Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Lee_Jae-myung> of the incumbent Democratic Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea>.^[3] <#cite_note-3>

Both main parties had unusually intense primary elections <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_election>. Upon its nomination <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nomination> of Lee Jae-myung <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung>, the second-place Democratic Party
candidate Lee Nak-yon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Nak-yon> called
for an appeal of the results, until being forced to concede. In the PPP,
frontrunner Yoon and party chairman Lee Jun-seok <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jun-seok> frequently clashed over Yoon's
performance and perceived apathy towards debates with other candidates.
The People Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Party_(South_Korea)> nominated Ahn Cheol-soo <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahn_Cheol-soo> and the Justice Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_Party_(South_Korea)> nominated Sim Sang-
jung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim_Sang-jung>.

Economic inequality <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Economic_inequality_in_South_Korea>, recovery from the ongoing COVID-19
pandemic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
COVID-19_pandemic_in_South_Korea>, antifeminist sentiment <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antifeminism> and housing issues were prominent
topics during the election. Analysts observed increased political
polarization <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_polarization>,
record low popularity amongst the candidates, infighting within both
main political parties, as well as a negative or divisive tone
throughout campaigning. After discussing a potential merger for some
time,^[4] <#cite_note-auto4-4> ^[5] <#cite_note-:3-5> Ahn withdrew his
campaign on 3 March, 6 days before the election, and endorsed Yoon.^[6]
<#cite_note-:4-6>

In the closest presidential election in South Korean history, Yoon won
the most overall votes and the key areas of Seoul <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul>, but lost in Gyeonggi <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyeonggi> and Incheon <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Incheon>.


    Background[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=1>]

Following a 2016 political scandal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2016_South_Korean_political_scandal> that led to the impeachment
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impeachment_of_Park_Geun-hye> of
president Park Geun-hye <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Geun-hye>,
snap elections were called for 2017.^[7] <#cite_note-7> Moon Jae-in
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_Jae-in> of the Democratic Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea> defeated Hong
Joon-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Joon-pyo> of the Liberty
Korea Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberty_Korea_Party> and Ahn
Cheol-soo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahn_Cheol-soo> of the People
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Party_(South_Korea,_2016)>
by a wide margin in the May 2017 election <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>, bringing the Democrats
back to power after nine years.^[8] <#cite_note-8> After three years in
office, Moon's position was strengthened by his party's victory in the
2020 legislative election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_South_Korean_legislative_election>, which gave them an absolute
majority of 180 out of 300 seats in the National Assembly <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Assembly_(South_Korea)>.^[9] <#cite_note-9>

However, in the 2021 Seoul mayoral by-election <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021_South_Korean_by-elections#Exit_poll>, young
voters in Seoul, who had traditionally sided with the Democratic Party,
voted for the conservative People's Power Party (PPP) by large
majorities: by a margin of 55.3 percent to 34.1 percent among voters in
their 20s, and 56.5 percent to 38.7 percent among voters in their
30s.^[10] <#cite_note-10> ^[11] <#cite_note-11> The incumbent
administration was blamed for the housing crisis in Seoul which affected
mostly younger citizens in their 20s and was rooted as the main cause of
the Democrats' defeat, along with antifeminist <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antifeminism> sentiment among young male voters
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idaenam>. The PPP elected 36-year-old Lee
Jun-seok <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jun-seok> as their new party
chief in June 2021. Lee's leadership campaign focused on young people
and a big tent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_tent> approach to the
electorate, which was seen as a generational shift in South Korean
politics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Korean_politics>.^[12]
<#cite_note-auto6-12> Lee had never held a public office. Several
parties selected candidates for the presidential election who similarly
lacked legislative or executive experience. Commentators observed that
this reflected growing public distrust in South Korea's establishment
politicians.^[13] <#cite_note-13>


    Electoral system[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=2>]

The president of South Korea is elected via a single-round plurality
voting system <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plurality_voting>, for a
term of five years. Incumbent and former presidents are ineligible to
seek re-election.^[14] <#cite_note-14>


    Nominations[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=3>]


      Democratic Party[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=4>]

The Democratic Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_of_Korea> (Korean <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Korean_language>: 더불어민주당) was the ruling political party of South
Korea <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Korea> following its
victories in the 2017 presidential election <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>, 2018 local elections
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2018_South_Korean_local_elections> and
the 2020 National Assembly election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_South_Korean_legislative_election>. The Democratic Party, while
technically founded in 2014, is part of a lineage of parties that
originated from the conservative 1955 Democratic Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_(South_Korea,_1955)>.^[15]
<#cite_note-15> Parties in this lineage gradually shifted their ideology
over the course of decades, and the 2022 Democratic Party is considered
a big tent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_tent> party comprising
both centrist <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrist>^[16]
<#cite_note-16> and liberal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Liberalism_in_South_Korea> factions.^[17] <#cite_note-17>

Politicians in this party generally support a social market economy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_market_economy> with a strong
social safety net <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_safety_net>,
anti-corruption measures <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-
corruption>, direct democracy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Direct_democracy>, and environmentalist <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Environmentalism> policies.^[18] <#cite_note-18> On matters of foreign
policy, the party supports reconciliation and eventual reunification
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunshine_Policy> with North Korea
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Korea>.^[19] <#cite_note-19> The
party is particularly strong in Honam region <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Honam>.^[20] <#cite_note-20> The incumbent president <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_South_Korea> at the time, Moon Jae-in
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_Jae-in>, was ineligible to run for
reelection due to term limits.


        Primary campaign[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=5>]

Former Prime Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Prime_Minister_of_South_Korea> Lee Nak-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Lee_Nak-yeon> cemented his front runner status for both the
Democratic Party's nomination and the general election by his victory in
the crucial district of Jongno <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jongno> in
the 2020 legislative election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_South_Korean_legislative_election>. Lee received wide support from
President Moon Jae-in <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon_Jae-in>'s
faction of the party, evinced by his landslide victory in the party
leadership contest of August 2020.^[21] <#cite_note-21> However, Lee's
January 2021 proposal to pardon former conservative presidents Park
Geun-hye <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Geun-hye> and Lee Myung-bak
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Myung-bak> faced backlash.^[22]
<#cite_note-22> Gyeonggi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyeonggi>
Governor Lee Jae-Myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-Myung>,
who ran a left-wing populist campaign for president in 2017 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election> while
Mayor of Seongnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seongnam>, emerged as a
popular alternative bolstered by a well-received response to the
COVID-19 pandemic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
COVID-19_pandemic_in_South_Korea> and his proposal for a universal basic
income <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_basic_income>.^[23]
<#cite_note-autogenerated1-23> Moon's second prime minister, Chung Sye-
kyun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chung_Sye-kyun>, also resigned to
run for the presidency.^[24] <#cite_note-24>

The primary campaign saw clashes which became increasingly heated
between Lee Nak-yeon and Lee Jae-myung.^[25] <#cite_note-25>


        Primary schedule and process[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
        index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=6>]

The nominating primaries were scheduled to be held in September 2021,
although representatives of the Lee Nak-yon <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Lee_Nak-yon> and Chung Sye-kyun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Chung_Sye-kyun> campaigns called for the primaries to be delayed to
November.^[26] <#cite_note-en.yna.co.kr-26> The calls to delay the
primary are seen to be attempts to prevent frontrunner Lee Jae-myung
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung> from getting the
nomination, as he is the most preferred candidate among the public and
the party.^[27] <#cite_note-27>

On 25 June, the party's supreme council decided to hold the primary as
scheduled by 10 September.^[26] <#cite_note-en.yna.co.kr-26> The
timetable for the process was as follows:^[26] <#cite_note-en.yna.co.kr-26>

  * 28 to 30 June – Registration of candidates
  * 9 to 11 July – Preliminary primary involving a 50:50 survey of the
    general public and party members
  * 11 July – announcement of the top six candidates eligible for the
    main primary
  * Before 10 September – Announcement of primary result and party nominee

On 19 July, the party announced a delay in the final selection of
candidates to mid-October due to an upsurge in COVID-19 cases in South
Korea.^[28] <#cite_note-28>

Following the completion of the nationwide primaries on 10 October 2021,
Lee Jae-myung was announced as the party's candidate for president.


          Primary results[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
          title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=7>]

*Candidate* 	*Place* 	*Votes* 	*Percentage*
*Lee Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung>* 	
*Nominated* 	*719,905* 	*50.29%*
Lee Nak-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Nak-yeon> 	2nd 	560,392
	39.14%
Choo Mi-ae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choo_Mi-ae> 	3rd 	129,035 	9.01%
Park Yong-jin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Yong-jin> 	4th 	22,261
	1.55%
	1,431,593 	100%

The votes above only count the votes cast for the four candidates who
stayed in the race up to the final round of the primary and does not
include votes received by Chung Sye-kyun and Kim Doo-kwan, who both
dropped out midway. Before dropping out, Chung had received 23,731 votes
and Kim received 4,411 votes.^[29] <#cite_note-auto1-29>

On 10 October, following the announcement of Lee Jae-myung's nomination,
Lee Nak-yeon campaign stated they would appeal the results. A day later,
the campaign submitted a formal appeal to the party. Rep. Hong Young-pyo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Young-pyo>, co-chair of the Lee Nak-
yeon campaign, said that the votes of Kim and Chung should be included
in the final result, in which case Lee Jae-myung's vote share would be
reduced to 49.32% and run-off would be required. However, party chairman
Song Young-gil <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Song_Young-gil> told
reporters he would reject the appeal and urged the former prime minister
to concede. Song added that the specific clause of excluding votes
received by withdrawn candidates from the final tally was approved
during the party convention of August 2020 when Lee Nak-yeon himself was
elected party chairman.^[29] <#cite_note-auto1-29>

On 13 October, the Party Affairs committee, with 64 of the 76 panel
members attending, voted by acclamation to dismiss the appeal. Lee Nak-
yeon formally conceded and vowed to do his part to ensure the party's
victory in the March election.^[30] <#cite_note-30>


        Candidate[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=8>]

  * Lee Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung>,
    Governor of Gyeonggi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Governor_of_Gyeonggi_Province> (2018–2021) and former Mayor of
    Seongnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seongnam> (2010–2018)^[31]
    <#cite_note-31> ^[32] <#cite_note-32> (Announced bid on 1 July, won
    nomination on 10 October)

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea>

Democratic Party Ticket
Lee Jae-myung
/*for President*/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Lee_Jae-
myung_presidential_candidate_portrait.jpg>

35th
Governor of Gyeonggi Province
(2018–2021)
*Campaign* <http://jmleetogether.com/>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Campaign_logo_of_Lee_Jae-
myung_for_President_of_South_Korea.png>


        Other primary candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
        index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=9>]

The following individuals were candidates for the Democratic party
primaries until the conclusion of the nomination process on 10 October,
in sequence of announcement of candidacy:

  * Lee Nak-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Nak-yeon>, former
    member of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2000–2014, 2016–2021), former
    Prime Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Prime_Minister_of_South_Korea> (2017–2020), former Governor of South
    Jeolla <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Governor_of_South_Jeolla_Province> (2014–2017) and former leader of
    the Democratic Party of Korea <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Democratic_Party_of_Korea> (2020–2021)^[33] <#cite_note-33> ^[34]
    <#cite_note-34> ^[35] <#cite_note-35> ^[36] <#cite_note-36>
  * Park Yong-jin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Yong-jin>, member
    of the National Assembly (2016–present)^[37] <#cite_note-37>
  * Choo Mi-ae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choo_Mi-ae>, former
    Minister of Justice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Ministry_of_Justice_(South_Korea)> (2020–2021), former member of the
    National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (1996–2004, 2008–2020) and former
    leader of the Democratic Party of Korea <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea> (2016–2018)^[38] <#cite_note-38> 

  *

    Lee Nak-yeon (announced 5 July 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    File:South_Korean_Prime_Minister_Lee_-_2017_(36235112603)_(cropped).jpg>

    Lee Nak-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Nak-yeon> (announced
    5 July 2021)

  *

    Park Yong-jin (announced 9 May 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    File:
    %EB%B0%95%EC%9A%A9%EC%A7%84_%EC%9D%98%EC%9B%90_%22%EC%9D%B4%EC%9E%AC%EC%9A%A9_%EB%B6%80%ED%9A%8C%EC%9E%A5_%EB%8C%80%EB%B2%95%EC%9B%90_%ED%8C%90%EA%B2%B0_%EC%A0%84_%EC%B2%A0%EC%A0%80%ED%95%9C_%EC%88%98%EC%82%AC_%EC%84%A0%EA%B2%B0%EB%8F%BC%EC%95%BC%22_59s.jpg>

    Park Yong-jin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Yong-jin>
    (announced 9 May 2021)

  *

    Choo Mi-ae (announced 23 June 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    File:Choo_Mi-ae_ministerial_portrait.png>

    Choo Mi-ae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choo_Mi-ae> (announced 23
    June 2021)


        Eliminated candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
        index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=10>]

On 11 July 2021, Democratic Party of Korea narrowed its primary
candidates down to six in the first round of the party primary. As a
result, two candidates were eliminated.^[39] <#cite_note-39>

  * Yang Seung-jo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yang_Seung-jo>,
    Governor of South Chungcheong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Governor_of_South_Chungcheong_Province> (2018–present), former
    member of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2004–2018)^[40] <#cite_note-40>
  * Choi Moon-soon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choi_Moon-soon>,
    Governor of Gangwon Province <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Governor_of_Gangwon_Province> (2011–present), former member of the
    National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2008–2011)^[41] <#cite_note-41> 

  *

    Yang Seung-jo (announced 12 May 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/File:
    %EC%96%91%EC%8A%B9%EC%A1%B0_%EC%B6%A9%EB%82%A8%EB%8F%84%EC%A7%80%EC%82%AC.jpg>

    Yang Seung-jo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yang_Seung-jo>
    (announced 12 May 2021)

  *

    Choi Moon-soon (announced 1 June 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/File:
    %EC%B5%9C%EB%AC%B8%EC%88%9C_%EA%B0%95%EC%9B%90%EB%8F%84%EC%A7%80%EC%82%AC.jpg>

    Choi Moon-soon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choi_Moon-soon>
    (announced 1 June 2021)


        Withdrawn candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=11>]

  * Lee Kwang-jae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Kwang-
    jae_(politician)>, member of the National Assembly (2004–2010, 2020–
    present), former Governor of Gangwon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Governor_of_Gangwon_Province> (2010–2011)^[42] <#cite_note-kbiz-42>
    ^[43] <#cite_note-federation-43> ^[44] <#cite_note-smes-44>
    (announced 27 May 2021, withdrew on 5 July and endorsed Chung Sye-
    kyun)^[45] <#cite_note-45>
  * Chung Sye-kyun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chung_Sye-kyun>,
    former Prime Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Prime_Minister_of_South_Korea> (2020–2021), former Speaker of the
    National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Speaker_of_the_National_Assembly_of_South_Korea> (2016–2018), former
    member of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2004–2020) (announced 17 June
    2021, withdrew on 13 September)^[46] <#cite_note-46> ^[47]
    <#cite_note-47> ^[48] <#cite_note-48>
  * Kim Doo-kwan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Doo-kwan>, member of
    the National Assembly (2016–present), former Governor of South
    Gyeongsang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Governor_of_South_Gyeongsang_Province> (2010–2012), former Minister
    of Government Administration and Home Affairs <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Ministry_of_the_Interior_and_Safety_(South_Korea)> (2003) (announced
    candidacy 1 July 2021, withdrew on 26 September and endorsed Lee
    Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung>)^[49]
    <#cite_note-49> ^[50] <#cite_note-50> 

  *

    Lee Kwang-jae <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Portrait_gray.png>

  *

    Chung Sye-kyun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    File:Donald_Trump_and_Chung_Sye-kyun_(cropped2).jpg>

  *

    Kim Doo-kwan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Portrait_gray.png>


      People Power Party[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=12>]

The People Power Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)> (Korean <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Korean_language>: 국민의힘) is the current iteration of a long line
of Korean conservative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Conservatism_in_South_Korea> parties that, throughout modern Korean
history <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_South_Korea>, rivaled
the long line of parties in the Democratic Party lineage. The party was
formally established in 2020^[51] <#cite_note-51> following a merger of
multiple conservative parties created in the fallout of the 2016 South
Korean corruption scandal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2016_South_Korean_political_scandal> that led to the fall of
conservative president <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
President_of_South_Korea> Park Geun-hye <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Park_Geun-hye> and her Saenuri Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Saenuri_Party>. In the 2017 presidential election <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>, the
party's legal predecessor <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Liberty_Korea_Party> nominated right-wing populist <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-wing_populist>^[52] <#cite_note-52> Hong
Jun-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Jun-pyo>, who went on to
lose the election to liberal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Liberalism_in_South_Korea> Moon Jae-in <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Moon_Jae-in>.

The party lost further ground in the 2020 National Assembly election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_South_Korean_legislative_election>.^[53] <#cite_note-53> However,
the party has since regained ground after retaking the mayor's offices
of Seoul and Busan in the 2021 South Korean by-elections <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021_South_Korean_by-elections>. On matters of
policy, politicians in this party generally support liberal <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberalism> economic policies (including support
for /chaebols <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chaebol>/,^[54]
<#cite_note-54> the industrial conglomerates that dominate the South
Korean economy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_South_Korea>)
and hold conservative positions on national security <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_security>, including hawkish <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawkish> stances on North Korea <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Korea>.^[55] <#cite_note-55> The party is
particularly strong in the southeastern Gyeongsang <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyeongsang> region.^[56] <#cite_note-56>

Under new party chairman Lee Jun-seok <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Lee_Jun-seok>'s plans for a 'big tent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Big_tent>' approach for the party's appeal to the electorate and desire
to unify opposition forces against the Democratic Party, up to 14
individuals have declared or expressed interest in running for the PPP
nomination. Another opposition candidate Ahn Cheol-soo is not a member
of the PPP.^[12] <#cite_note-auto6-12>


        Primary campaign[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=13>]

Yoon Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol>, was seen as
the frontrunner for the party's nomination since early 2020 despite not
initially being a member of the party.^[57] <#cite_note-57> ^[58]
<#cite_note-58> Yoon led a January 2021 opinion poll as the most favored
presidential candidate at 30.4 percent, over the ruling Democratic
Party's Lee Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung> and
Lee Nak-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Nak-yeon>.^[59]
<#cite_note-59> Yoon had expressed interest in joining the party, but
had also not ruled out the possibility of creating his own party and
then forging an electoral alliance with the PPP afterwards.^[60]
<#cite_note-60> After officially declaring his candidacy on 29 June
2021, Yoon officially joined the PPP on 30 July.^[61] <#cite_note-61>
^[62] <#cite_note-62> ^[63] <#cite_note-63>

At one point, former Prime Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Prime_Minister_of_South_Korea> Hwang Kyo-ahn <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Hwang_Kyo-ahn>, a longtime prosecutor who entered politics as
Minister of Justice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ministry_of_Justice_(South_Korea)> and later became acting President of
South Korea <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_South_Korea>
following Park Geun-hye <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Geun-hye>'s
removal from office, was briefly seen as the most likely right-wing
candidate for the 2022 presidential election during a period in
2019.^[64] <#cite_note-64> However, his high-profile defeat in the 2020
South Korean legislative election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_South_Korean_legislative_election> in the crucial Jongno <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jongno> district by Democratic <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea> 2022 presidential
candidate and former Prime Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Prime_Minister_of_South_Korea> Lee Nak-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Lee_Nak-yeon> obliterated his standing in national polling.^[65]
<#cite_note-65>

Representative Hong Jun-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Jun-
pyo>, the conservative opponent of Moon in 2017 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>, sought
the PPP nomination again for 2022, coming in a close second place.^[66]
<#cite_note-auto-66>

Former National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> member Yoo Seong-min <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoo_Seong-min>, one of the most prominent
conservative opponents of Park Geun-hye <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Park_Geun-hye> and a co-founder of the breakaway <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_South_Korean_political_scandal> Bareun Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bareun_Party> in 2016, announced his
candidacy in May 2020.^[67] <#cite_note-auto2-67>

Choi Jae-hyung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choi_Jae-hyung>, former
Chairman of the Board of Audit and Inspection <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Board_of_Audit_and_Inspection>, joined the party on 15 July
2021.^[68] <#cite_note-68> On 26 July, Choi officially registered his
candidacy with the National Election Commission.^[69] <#cite_note-
Yoon_joins_PPP_1-69> On 30 July, upon frontrunner Yoon Suk-yeol's
entrance into the People Power Party, Choi personally welcomed Yoon in a
small COVID-19-aware media ceremony.^[69] <#cite_note-Yoon_joins_PPP_1-69>

Chang Sŏng-min <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chang_S%C5%8Fng-min>,
former aide to president Kim Dae-jung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Kim_Dae-jung> and former member of the National Assembly (2000–2002)
joined PPP on 2 August and announced his candidacy on 15 August
2021.^[70] <#cite_note-auto3-70>

In August 2021, the primary campaign was marked by clashes between party
chairman Lee and frontrunner Yoon. Yoon was accused of snubbing planned
debates between the primary contenders mooted by Lee and the party
leadership as Yoon was allegedly unprepared for debate questioning,
including scandals involving his family and lacking broad knowledge on
various social issues, as evidenced by gaffes made during the campaign.
Yoon attacked Lee, calling him "self-righteous" while Lee hit back and
said Yoon was uncooperative with the party leadership.^[71]
<#cite_note-71> In addition, Lee was also accused of being partial and
taking sides, regarded as unbecoming of a party chairman's role.^[72]
<#cite_note-72> Other PPP candidates waded into the issue and criticised
Yoon.^[73] <#cite_note-73>

Yoon was charged by the Corruption Investigation Office for High-ranking
Officials <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Corruption_Investigation_Office_for_High-ranking_Officials> (CIO) on
multiple charges, including abuse of power on 10 September, for
allegedly prodding the PPP to lodge criminal complaints against pro-
government figures ahead of the April 2020 parliamentary elections to
possibly influence the polls.^[74] <#cite_note-74> By this point, Yoon
was no longer a stable frontrunner for the PPP nomination, instead, 2017
candidate Hong Jun-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Jun-pyo> had
overtaken Yoon according to several opinion polls.^[75] <#cite_note-75>

During the campaign, Yoon made a series of controversial statements
which took a toll on his support:^[76] <#cite_note-:1-76>

  * Criticizing the Moon administration's 52-hour work week policy, Yoon
    called for more flexibility for corporate managers, saying that, for
    example, employees at a game development studio should be able to
    work up to 120 hours a week during peak season and given ample
    downtime when work was slow. (Currently, South Korea already has
    among the longest working hours among the Organisation for Economic
    Co-operation and Development (OECD) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Organisation_for_Economic_Co-operation_and_Development> member states)
  * Implying that the growing feminist movement in South Korea was a
    factor in the country's low birthrate
  * "Poor people should be allowed to choose to have inferior food to
    eat at lower prices", in reference to government regulations and
    food safety.
  * On Japan's Fukushima power plant, that "basically radiation leaks
    did not occur as the power plant itself wasn't destroyed."
  * In October 2021, Yoon said of former president and dictator Chun
    Doo-hwan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chun_Doo-hwan>, "Many people
    still consider Chun as having done well in politics, except the
    military coup and the Gwangju Uprising," and added the claim that
    some people in the southwestern region of Honam, which includes
    Gwangju, also think that way.^[77] <#cite_note-77> This comment was
    criticized by both the Democratic party and even within the PPP. To
    make matters worse, after Yoon made a reluctant apology, a photo
    posted on Instagram of his dog being fed an apple caused
    controversy. In Korean, "apology" and "apple" are homonyms and the
    fact that Yoon's dog was given the fruit only hours after the public
    apology led to criticism that Yoon was not truly sorry and dismissed
    the people as dogs.^[78] <#cite_note-78> 


          Primary results[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
          title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=14>]

*Candidate* 	*Place* 	*Votes* 	*Percentage*
*Yoon Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol>* 	
*Nominated* 	*347,963* 	*47.85%*
Hong Jun-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Jun-pyo> 	2nd 	301,786
	41.50%
Yoo Seong-min <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoo_Seong-min> 	3rd 	54,304
	7.47%
Won Hee-ryong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Won_Hee-ryong> 	4th 	23,085
	3.17%
	727,138 	100%


        Candidate[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=15>]

  * Yoon Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol>, former
    Prosecutor General of South Korea <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Prosecutor_General_of_South_Korea> (2019–2021) (announced bid on 29
    June 2021, won nomination on 5 November 2021)^[79] <#cite_note-79>
    ^[80] <#cite_note-80> 

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)>

People Power Party Ticket
Yoon Suk Yeol
/*for President*/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:South_Korea_President_Yoon_Suk_Yeol_portrait.jpg>

Prosecutor General of South Korea
(2019–2021)
*Campaign* <https://yoonlove.com/> Archived <https://web.archive.org/
web/20211110094408/https://yoonlove.com/> 10 November 2021 at the
Wayback Machine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>


        Other candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=16>]

The following individuals were candidates until the conclusion of the
nomination process on 5 November where Yoon Suk Yeol <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol> was announced the winner.

  * Hong Jun-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Jun-pyo>, member of
    the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (1996–1999, 2001–2012, 2020–
    present), former Governor of South Gyeongsang <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_South_Gyeongsang_Province> (2012–
    2017), former leader of the Grand National Party <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grand_National_Party> (2011) and the Liberty
    Korea Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberty_Korea_Party>
    (2017–2018), and 2017 presidential nominee <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election> of
    the Liberty Korea Party.^[66] <#cite_note-auto-66>
  * Yoo Seong-min <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoo_Seong-min>, former
    member of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2005–2020), 2017 presidential
    nominee <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2017_South_Korean_presidential_election> of the Bareun Party
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bareun_Party>, former leader of the
    Bareunmirae Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bareunmirae_Party>
    (2018), and former leader of the Bareun Party <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bareun_Party> (2017–2018).^[67] <#cite_note-
    auto2-67>
  * Won Hee-ryong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Won_Hee-ryong>,
    Governor of Jeju <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Governor_of_Jeju_Province> (2014–2021) and former member of the
    National Assembly (2000–2012)^[81] <#cite_note-81> 

  *

    Hong Jun-pyo (announced 28 June 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/File:Shinz%C5%8D_Abe_and_Hong_Jun-
    pyo_at_the_Japanese_Prime_Minister%27s_Office_(cropped).jpg>

    Hong Jun-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Jun-pyo> (announced
    28 June 2021)

  *

    Yoo Seong-min (announced 26 May 2020) <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/File:
    %EA%B0%95%EB%A6%89_%EC%82%B0%EB%B6%88_%EB%B0%94%EB%A5%B8%EC%A0%95%EB%8B%B9_%EC%9C%A0%EC%8A%B9%EB%AF%BC_%EB%8F%99%EB%B6%80%EC%A7%80%EB%B0%A9%EC%82%B0%EB%A6%BC%EC%B2%AD%EC%9E%A5_%EA%B3%A0%EA%B8%B0%EC%97%B0_%EA%B0%95%EB%A6%89%EC%8B%9C%EC%9E%A5_%EC%B5%9C%EB%AA%85%ED%9D%AC_2017-05-07_10.23.03_(cropped).jpg>

    Yoo Seong-min <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoo_Seong-min>
    (announced 26 May 2020)

  *

    Won Hee-ryong (announced 11 October 2020) <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/File:Won_Heeryong_-_2_in_2016_(cropped).jpg>

    Won Hee-ryong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Won_Hee-ryong>
    (announced 11 October 2020)

The following 4 candidates were eliminated on 8 October.^[82]
<#cite_note-82>

  * Ha Tae-keung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha_Tae-keung>, member of
    the National Assembly (2012–present)^[83] <#cite_note-83>
  * Hwang Kyo-ahn <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hwang_Kyo-ahn>, former
    Acting President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    President_of_South_Korea> (2017), former Prime Minister <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_South_Korea> (2015–2017),
    former Minister of Justice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Ministry_of_Justice_(South_Korea)> (2013–2015), former leader of the
    Liberty Korea Party (2019–2020), and former leader of the Future
    United Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)> (2020)^[84] <#cite_note-84>
  * Ahn Sang-soo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahn_Sang-
    soo_(born_May_1946)>, former member of the National Assembly
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Assembly_(South_Korea)>
    (1999–2000, 2015–2020), former mayor of Incheon <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Incheon> (2002–2010)^[85]
    <#cite_note-85>
  * Choi Jae-hyung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choi_Jae-hyung>,
    former judge and Chairman of the Board of Audit and Inspection
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Board_of_Audit_and_Inspection> (2018–
    2021)^[86] <#cite_note-As_ex-Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt-86> ^[87]
    <#cite_note-87> ^[88] <#cite_note-88> (Subsequently, endorsed Hong
    Jun-pyo on 16 October)^[89] <#cite_note-89> 

  *

    Ha Tae-keung (announced 11 June 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/File:%ED%95%98%ED%83%9C%EA%B2%BD.png>

    Ha Tae-keung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha_Tae-keung> (announced
    11 June 2021)

  *

    Hwang Kyo-ahn (announced 1 July 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/File:Hwang_Kyo-ahnrio.jpg>

    Hwang Kyo-ahn <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hwang_Kyo-ahn>
    (announced 1 July 2021)

  *

    Choi Jae-hyung (announced 4 August 2021) <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/File:Jae-Hyeong_Choi.jpg_(cropped).jpg>

    Choi Jae-hyung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choi_Jae-hyung>
    (announced 4 August 2021)

The following candidates were eliminated by a party cut-off process on
15 September.

  * Jang Kyi-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jang_Kyi-
    pyo&action=edit&redlink=1> [ko <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    %EC%9E%A5%EA%B8%B0%ED%91%9C>], former leader of the Green Social
    Democratic Party^[90] <#cite_note-90> (announced 6 July 2021)
  * Chang Sŏng-min <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chang_S%C5%8Fng-min>,
    2017 National Grand Unification Party presidential nominee <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election> and
    former member of the National Assembly (2000–2002) (announced on 15
    August 2021)^[91] <#cite_note-91> ^[92] <#cite_note-92> ^[70]
    <#cite_note-auto3-70> 


        Withdrawn candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=17>]

  * Yun Hee-suk <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yun_Hee-suk>, member of
    the National Assembly (2020–2021)^[93] <#cite_note-93> ^[94]
    <#cite_note-94> (announced 2 July 2021, ended campaign on 25 August)
  * Kim Tae-ho <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Tae-ho_(politician)>,
    member of the National Assembly (2011–2016, 2020–present) and former
    Governor of South Gyeongsang (2002–2010)^[95] <#cite_note-95> ^[96]
    <#cite_note-96> (announced 15 July 2021, ended campaign on 17 August)


        Did not run[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=18>]

Amid reports of a dossier detailing illegal activities of Yoon Suk-yeol
and his family in late June 2021, Seoul Mayor Oh Se-hoon <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oh_Se-hoon>, who had recently won the April 2021
mayoral by-election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021_South_Korean_by-
elections#Mayor_of_Seoul>, was speculated to join the primary race if
Yoon dropped out. Ultimately this did not materialize.^[86] <#cite_note-
As_ex-Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt-86>

Another candidate who intended to run for the PPP nomination was Ahn
Cheol-soo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahn_Cheol-soo>, founder and
leader of the People Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Party_(South_Korea)>.^[86] <#cite_note-As_ex-
Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt-86> Ahn, a former medical doctor, software
engineer and National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> member who is known for his centrist
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrist> views, is considered a possible
candidate following his performance in the 2017 presidential election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>.
Ahn had also recently run for Mayor of Seoul <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Mayor_of_Seoul> in the 2021 by-elections <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/2021_South_Korean_by-elections#Mayor_of_Seoul>, but had pulled out
of the race and supported PPP candidate Oh Se-hoon <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oh_Se-hoon> after losing opinion surveys to Oh,
who would go on to win the race. On 22 June 2021, Ahn began negotiations
with the PPP and its party leader Lee Jun-seok <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jun-seok>, reportedly considering a merger
between his People Party and the PPP and a bid for the presidency on the
PPP ticket.^[86] <#cite_note-As_ex-Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt-86>
These negotiations ended unsuccessfully on 16 August due to
disagreements on party-level issues such as proposed changes to the
PPP's name and method of picking a 2022 candidate.^[97] <#cite_note-97>
Ahn later ran as a third-party nominee with the People Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Party_(South_Korea,_2020)> before dropping
out and endorsing Yoon Suk Yeol.

  * Oh Se-hoon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oh_Se-hoon>, Mayor of
    Seoul <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Seoul> (2021–present,
    2006–2011) and former member of the National Assembly (2000–
    2004)^[86] <#cite_note-As_ex-Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt-86>
  * Ahn Cheol-soo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahn_Cheol-soo>, 2017
    People's Party presidential nominee <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>, leader of the People Party
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Party_(South_Korea)>, former
    member of the National Assembly (2013–2017), and founder of AhnLab,
    Inc.^[86] <#cite_note-As_ex-Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt-86> ^[4]
    <#cite_note-auto4-4> 

  *

    Ahn Cheol-soo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:AhnCheolSoo2022.png>


      Justice Party[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=19>]

The Justice Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Justice_Party_(South_Korea)> (Korean <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Korean_language>: 정의당) is a centre-left <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Centre-left_politics>, social democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Social_democracy> and progressive <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Progressivism> party that was founded in October 2012. The party has
been the third largest party in the National Assembly after the 2020
election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_South_Korean_legislative_election>.


        Candidate[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=20>]

  * Sim Sang-jung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim_Sang-jung>, 2017
    Justice Party presidential nominee <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>, member of the National
    Assembly (2004–2008, 2012–present), and former leader of the Justice
    Party (2015–2017, 2019–2020) (announced 18 August 2021, nominated on
    12 October)^[98] <#cite_note-98> 

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_Party_(South_Korea)>

Justice Party Ticket
Sim Sang-jung
/*for President*/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
%EC%A4%91%EC%95%99%EC%84%A0%EA%B1%B0%EA%B4%80%EB%A6%AC%EC%9C%84%EC%9B%90%ED%9A%8C_%EC%8B%AC%EC%83%81%EC%A0%95_%ED%94%84%EB%A1%9C%ED%95%84.jpg>

Member of the National Assembly
(2012–)


        Other primary candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
        index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=21>]

  * Lee Jeong-mi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jeong-mi>, former
    member of the National Assembly (2016–2020) and former leader of the
    Justice Party (2017–2019) (announced 23 August 2021)^[99]
    <#cite_note-99>
  * Hwang Sun-sik, two-term member of the Gwacheon City Council in
    Gyeonggi-do. (announced 31 August 2021)
  * Kim Yun-gi, acting Representative of the Justice Party (announced 2
    September 2021)

  *

    Lee Jeong-mi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Lee_Jeong-
    mi_taking_a_commemorative_photo_at_the_National_Assembly.jpg>


      People Party[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=22>]

The People Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Party_(South_Korea)> (Korean <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Korean_language>: 국민의당) is a conservative liberal <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conservative_liberalism>, socially conservative
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_conservatism> and reformist
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reformism> party that was registered in
February 2020. The party is considered a minor or third party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minor_party>, as current politics is mostly
dominated by the centre-left Democratic Party of Korea and the right-
wing People Power Party. It is the most recent party founded by centrist
politician Ahn Cheol-soo, a former medical doctor and software executive
who ran for president in the 2012 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2012_South_Korean_presidential_election> and 2017 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>
presidential elections and emerged at various points as a possible
winning contender. In the 2017 election, Ahn emerged as a major threat
to eventual winner Moon Jae-in, at one point polling nearly even with
Moon before collapsing in polling and finishing behind conservative
firebrand candidate Hong Jun-pyo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Hong_Jun-pyo> with approximately 21.41% of the vote. In the 2020
National Assembly election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_South_Korean_legislative_election>, the People Party fared poorly,
winning a mere 3 seats; in comparison, Ahn's previous outfit, the
identically named People Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Party_(South_Korea,_2016)>, won an unexpectedly large 38 seats in
the 2016 National Assembly election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2016_South_Korean_legislative_election>. In the 2021 elections <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021_South_Korean_by-elections#Mayor_of_Seoul>,
Ahn ran for Mayor of Seoul <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mayor_of_Seoul>, but, in a pre-negotiated deal with the PPP, pulled out
of the race after losing opinion polls to PPP candidate Oh Se-hoon
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oh_Se-hoon> and supported Oh, who would
go on to win the election.

Ahn was considering a candidacy and party merger with the People Power
Party. However, the negotiations between Ahn and PPP leader Lee Jun-seok
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jun-seok> ended with hostilities on
16 August 2021.^[4] <#cite_note-auto4-4>

On 8 October 2021, the Party's "Central Party Election Planning Group"
was launched, and it took the first steps in the process of selecting a
presidential candidate.^[100] <#cite_note-100>

On 1 November 2021, Ahn Cheol-soo announced his candidacy in the 2022
presidential election.^[101] <#cite_note-101> The People Party's Central
Party Election Planning Group stated it would receive applications for
other presidential candidates for two days following Ahn's announcement,
but it was considered merely a formality and that Ahn would certainly be
the People Party's presidential candidate.^[102] <#cite_note-102>

On 3 November, Ahn publicly rejected the idea of merging the candidacies
of the People Party and the People Power Party.^[103] <#cite_note-103>

On 4 November, Ahn was chosen as the People Party nominee with 92% of
the vote, and he accepted the nomination.^[104] <#cite_note-104> ^[105]
<#cite_note-105>

On 3 March 2022, six days before the presidential election, Ahn dropped
out of the presidential race and endorsed PPP candidate Yoon Seok-youl
for president. At the time of his dropping out, Ahn was polling at
around 10%.^[106] <#cite_note-106>


        Candidate[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=23>]

  * Ahn Cheol-soo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahn_Cheol-soo>, 2012
    independent presidential candidate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2012_South_Korean_presidential_election>, 2017 People's Party
    presidential nominee <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>, leader of the People Party
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Party_(South_Korea)> (2020–),
    former member of the National Assembly (2013-2017), and founder of
    AhnLab, Inc. (nominated 4 November 2021)^[86] <#cite_note-As_ex-
    Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt-86> ^[4] <#cite_note-auto4-4> ^[107]
    <#cite_note-107> 

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Party_(South_Korea)>

People Party Ticket
Ahn Cheol-soo
/*for President*/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:AhnCheolSoo2022.png>

Leader of the People Party
(2020–)


      Minor party candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=24>]

Party 	Candidate 	Position <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Political_spectrum> 	Notes
	*National Revolutionary Dividends Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Revolutionary_Dividends_Party>* 	Huh Kyung-young <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huh_Kyung-young> 	Syncretic <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syncretic_politics> 	Party founder and 2021
candidate for Seoul Mayor, 1997 and 2007 Republican <https://
ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%EB%AF%BC%EC%A3%BC%EA%B3%B5%ED%99%94%EB%8B%B9_(%EB%8C%80%ED%95%9C%EB%AF%BC%EA%B5%AD,_1997%EB%85%84)> presidential candidate.^[108] <#cite_note-108>
	*Progressive Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Progressive_Party_(South_Korea,_2017)>* 	Kim Jae-yeon <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Jae-yeon_(politician)> 	Left-wing <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Left-wing_politics> to far-left <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-left_politics> 	Former member of the National
Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Assembly_(South_Korea)>
(2012–2014).
	*Our Republican Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Our_Republican_Party_(2020)>* 	Cho Won-jin <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Cho_Won-jin> 	Far-right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-
right_politics> 	Former member of the National Assembly <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2008–2020).
Saenuri Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saenuri_Party_(2017)>'s
presidential candidate in the 2017 presidential election <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>^[109]
<#cite_note-109>
	*National Revolutionary Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Revolutionary_Party_(South_Korea,_2021)>* 	Ko Young-il 	
Lawyer^[a] <#cite_note-110>
	*Korean Unification Party <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%ED%86%B5%EC%9D%BC%ED%95%9C%EA%B5%AD%EB%8B%B9_(2021%EB%85%84)>* 	Lee
Gyeong-hee 	Ethnic nationalism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ethnic_nationalism> 	
	New Wave - Squid Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
New_Wave_(political_party)> 	Kim Dong-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Kim_Dong-yeon> 	Centre <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrism> 	
Endorsed by Period Transition <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Period_Transition>, Future Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mirae_Party>
Withdrew on 2 March 2022. Endorsed Lee Jae-myung <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung>
	Basic Income Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_Income_Party> 	
Oh Jun-ho 	Single issue <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-
issue_politics>
Basic income <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_income>
	Member of the Korea Network of Basic Income.^[110] <#cite_note-111> Ran
on a policy of a universal basic income <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Universal_basic_income> of ₩ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Korean_won>650,000 ($ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_dollar>530) a month for all adults in South Korea.^[111]
<#cite_note-112>
	Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_(politician)> 	
Sohn Hak-kyu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sohn_Hak-kyu> 	Centre
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrism> to centre-right <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center-right_politics> 	Former leader of the now-
defunct Bareunmirae Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bareunmirae_Party>
Governor of Gyeonggi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyeonggi> (2002–2006)
Member of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (1993-1998, 2000–2002, 2011–2012)^[112]
<#cite_note-113>
Withdrew on 27 January 2022^[113] <#cite_note-114>
	Labor Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Labor_Party_(South_Korea)> 	
Lee Baek-yun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Baek-yun> 	Left-wing
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Left-wing_politics>
Socialism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialism>
	Former leader for the South Chungcheong Province <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Chungcheong_Province> branch of the
Socialist Revolutionary Workers' Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Socialist_Revolutionary_Workers%27_Party>.^[114] <#cite_note-115>
	New Korean Peninsula Party <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%EC%8B%A0%ED%95%9C%EB%B0%98%EB%8F%84%EB%8B%B9> 	Park Geun-Ryeong 	Right-
wing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-wing_politics> to far-right
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-right_politics>
National conservatism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_conservatism>
	Biological daughter of former dictator Park Chung Hee <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Chung_Hee> and younger sister of impeached
and imprisoned ex-President Park Geun-hye <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Park_Geun-hye>^[/citation needed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/]
Failed to submit required candidacy document.^[b] <#cite_note-116>
	Korean Wave Alliance Party <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%ED%95%9C%EB%A5%98%EC%97%B0%ED%95%A9%EB%8B%B9> 	Kim Min-chan 	Centre
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrism> to centre-right <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center-right_politics> 	Candidate for the 2017
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_South_Korean_presidential_election>
Presidential election. Chairman of the World Masters Committee.
	New National Participation Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
New_National_Participation_Party> 	Kim Yu-chan 	Centre <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrism> to centre-right <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center-right_politics> 	CEO of Korea Research
Institute for Political Development. Endorsed by the Korean National
Party <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%ED%95%9C%EA%B5%AD%EA%B5%AD%EB%AF%BC%EB%8B%B9_(2015%EB%85%84)>.^[c]
<#cite_note-117>
	Revolution 21 <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%ED%98%81%EB%AA%8521> 	
Hwang Jang-su 	Right-wing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-
wing_politics> to far-right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-
right_politics> 	Director of Future Management Research Institute.^[d]
<#cite_note-118>
	Saenuri Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saenuri_Party_(2017)> 	Ok
Un-ho 	Far-right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-right_politics> 	
Former co-represented of the Clean Election Citizen Action^[115]
<#cite_note-119>
	New Liberal Democratic Union <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%EC%8B%A0%EC%9E%90%EC%9C%A0%EB%AF%BC%EC%A3%BC%EC%97%B0%ED%95%A9> 	Kim
Gyeong-Jae 	Centre-right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center-
right_politics> to Right-wing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-
wing_politics> 	Former selected candidate for the National Revolutionary
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Revolutionary_Party_(South_Korea,_2021)>. but replaced and
changed parties.
	New Han People's Peninsular Peace Party <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%EC%8B%A0%ED%95%9C%EB%B0%98%EB%8F%84%ED%8F%89%ED%99%94%EC%B2%B4%EC%A0%9C%EB%8B%B9> 	Go Don-sik 	Ethnic nationalism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Korean_ethnic_nationalism> 	Former President of the Korea Culture, Sports and Arts Association.^[e] <#cite_note-120>


    Registered candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=25>]

# 	Candidate 	Affiliation 	Background
*1* 	Lee Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung> 		
Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea> 	
Governor of Gyeonggi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Governor_of_Gyeonggi_Province> (2018–2021)
Mayor of Seongnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seongnam> (2010–2018)
*2* 	Yoon Suk-yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk-yeol> 		
People Power <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)> 	Prosecutor General of South Korea
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prosecutor_General_of_South_Korea> (2019–
2021)
*3* 	Sim Sang-jung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim_Sang-jung> 		
Justice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_Party_(South_Korea)> 	
Member of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2004–2008, 2012–present)
Leader of the Justice Party (2015–2017, 2019–2020)
*4* 	Ahn Cheol-soo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahn_Cheol-soo> 		
People Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Party_(South_Korea)>
	Leader of the People Party (2020–present)
Member of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2013–2017)
Withdrew from the election and endorsed Yoon Suk-yeol on 3 March
*5* 	Oh Jun-ho 		Basic Income <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Basic_Income_Party> 	Member of the Korea Network of Basic Income
*6* 	Huh Kyung-young <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huh_Kyung-young> 		
National Revolutionary Dividends <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Revolutionary_Dividends_Party> 	Leader of the National
Revolutionary Party (2019–present)
Perennial candidate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perennial_candidate>
*7* 	Lee Baek-yun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Baek-yun> 		Labor
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Labor_Party_(South_Korea)> 	Former leader
of South Chungcheong Province <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Chungcheong_Province> branch of the Socialist Revolutionary
Workers' Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Socialist_Revolutionary_Workers%27_Party>
*8* 	Ok Un-ho 		Saenuri <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Saenuri_Party_(2017)> 	CEO of ABIX
*9* 	Kim Dong-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Dong-yeon> 		New
Wave <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Wave_(political_party)> 	Leader
of the New Wave (2021–present)
Withdrew from the election and endorsed Lee Jae-myung on 2 March
*10* 	Kim Gyeong-jae 		New Liberal Democratic Union <https://
ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%EC%8B%A0%EC%9E%90%EC%9C%A0%EB%AF%BC%EC%A3%BC%EC%97%B0%ED%95%A9> 	Member
of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (1996–2004)
*11* 	Cho Won-jin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cho_Won-jin> 		Our
Republican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Our_Republican_Party_(2020)> 	
Leader of the Our Republican Party (2020–present)
Member of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2008–2020)
*12* 	Kim Jae-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Jae-
yeon_(politician)> 		Progressive <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Progressive_Party_(South_Korea,_2017)> 	Member of the National Assembly
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Assembly_(South_Korea)> (2012–2014)
*13* 	Lee Gyeong-hee 		Korean Unification <https://ko.wikipedia.org/
wiki/%ED%86%B5%EC%9D%BC%ED%95%9C%EA%B5%AD%EB%8B%B9_(2021%EB%85%84)> 	
Entrepreneur
*14* 	Kim Min-chan 		Korean Wave Alliance <https://ko.wikipedia.org/
wiki/%ED%95%9C%EB%A5%98%EC%97%B0%ED%95%A9%EB%8B%B9> 	Candidate in the
2017 election


    Opinion polling[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=26>]


    Campaign developments[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=27>]


      Campaign issues[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=28>]

According to a Gallup <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gallup_(company)>
poll in January 2022, voters main priorities were solving real estate
issues, economic recovery and response to the COVID-19 pandemic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic_in_South_Korea>.^[116]
<#cite_note-121> ^[117] <#cite_note-gallup.co.kr-122>


      Negative campaigning and candidate unpopularity[edit <https://
      en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=29>]

During the primary campaign, observers^[/who? <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/
Words_to_watch#Unsupported_attributions>/] noted that the presidential
campaign was going down as the most negative campaign in South Korea's
recent history, as the candidates were described^[/by whom? <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/
Words_to_watch#Unsupported_attributions>/] to be busy slandering each
other and not competing on the basis of values, platforms or policies.

A Hankyoreh commentary said PPP candidates like Yoo Seong-min, Won Hee-
ryong, and Choi Jae-hyung, and Lee Nak-yeon and Chung Sye-kyun on the
Democratic side struggled in their respective party primaries as they
were too "elite" and too "respectable".^[/citation needed <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/] A /Voice of America
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voice_of_America>/ article reported that
South Korea's lax media editorial standards <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Media_in_South_Korea> was responsible for playing a role in
allowing unsubstantiated allegations being spread. This environment,
added with complications by social media, which has fractured the media
landscape and sharpened political divides <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Political_polarization> has led to allowing the loudest and most
divisive voices to emerge at the top (an example of such a phenomenon
was cited as Donald Trump <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>'s
victory over Hillary Clinton <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Hillary_Clinton>, in the 2016 U.S. election campaign <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_United_States_presidential_election>).^[118]
<#cite_note-auto5-123>

By October,^[118] <#cite_note-auto5-123>

  * Yoon Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol> (PPP),
    in addition to his controversial remarks and being accused of
    preparing premeditated criminal charges on figures related to the
    Moon government on behalf of the PPP opposition in 2020 as
    prosecutor general, was dogged by accusations of relying on
    shamanism and superstition.^[/citation needed <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/] At a debate with
    primary candidates he was forced to deny meeting with an unlicensed
    religious medical practitioner specialising in anal acupuncture.^[/
    citation needed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/] However he ended up defending the
    teachings of a mystic who claimed he could travel between
    dimensions.^[/citation needed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/]
  * As for candidate Hong Jun-pyo, he described himself as a strongman
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strongman_(politics)> leader
    comparing himself to US President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    President_of_the_United_States> Donald Trump <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump> and China's leader <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paramount_leader> Xi Jinping <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xi_Jinping>, and was called "Hong Trump" due
    to his offensive and colourful remarks. He was criticized for
    writing in a 2005 book that he helped his friend obtain a 'pig
    stimulant' to commit date rape <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Date_rape> on a woman when he was a 18-year-old college student
    (this controversy first emerged in his 2017 presidential run). In
    his 2017 campaign, he said dish-washing in the house was a woman's
    job.^[119] <#cite_note-auto7-124> 

The three main contenders, Lee for the Democratic Party, and Hong Jun-
pyo and Yoon on the PPP side, were reported to have record low
favorability ratings according to approval ratings compiled by Gallup
Korea. Lee, has an approval rating of only 34%, while Yoon's rating was
at just 30% and Hong Joon-pyo, at 28%. In contrast, President Moon Jae-
in had a positive favorability rating of 47% while running for election
in 2017.^[118] <#cite_note-auto5-123>

A later poll in the second half of October showed that Lee's rating fell
to 32%, while Yoon's rating fell to 28% (after the Chun Doo-hwan
controversy) and falling behind Hong who was polled at 31%. The same
pollster revealed that minor party candidates fared even worse: Sim
Sang-jung from the Justice Party had 24 percent support approval against
62 percent disapproval, and Ahn Cheol-soo, leader of the People Party,
had a 19 percent approval rating with 72 percent disapproval.^[119]
<#cite_note-auto7-124>

However, by January 2022, a Gallup poll showed the favorability ratings
of Ahn Cheol-soo, Lee Jae-myung and Sim Sang-jung rose to 38%, 36% and
30% respectively, while Yoon Suk Yeol's rating crashed to 25%.^[117]
<#cite_note-gallup.co.kr-122>


      Recruitment of left-wing feminists to the conservative camps[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=30>]

On 21 December 2021, despite conservative People Power Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)> candidate Yoon
Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol> being openly
anti-feminist, two famous left-wing women's rights activists, Shin Ji-ye
<https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EC%8B%A0%EC%A7%80%EC%98%88> and Lee Soo-
jung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soo_Jung_Lee>, joined the
conservative camp for president.^[/citation needed <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/] Yoon's camp most
notably recruited Shin Ji-ye <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%EC%8B%A0%EC%A7%80%EC%98%88>, a two time candidate for Seoul Mayor in
2018 under the Green Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Green_Party_Korea> and again in 2021 as an independent <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician>. Shin stated, "(Yoon)
pledged to resolve violence against women, address the climate crisis
and create a Republic of Korea that overcomes (the division of) left and
right and moves forward, so I decided to take part."^[120]
<#cite_note-125> Many criticized this move, including:

  * Choi Hyun-sook, an LGBTQ human rights activist, left a comment on
    Shin Ji-ye's Facebook statement, saying, "She must have been such a
    human being."
  * Ha Heon-ki, a youth spokesman for the Democratic Party of Korea,
    said on Facebook, "I ended up going to the place I commented on as
    Hitler's party."
  * Austin Bashore, long-time friend of Shin and member of the Green
    Party US <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Green_Party_of_the_United_States> tweeted "This was not our plan",
    "Nobody saw this coming, even her closest friends", and "I met Shin
    Ji-ye in her apartment two weeks ago for a friendship brunch. As
    friends do, we talked about politics and she said she did not know
    [who] to support, so I suggested, as friends do, to support
    Progressive Party candidate Kim Jae-yeon." Bashore also called her
    an "opportunist," which began trending on Korean Twitter from 21 to
    22 December 2021.^[121] <#cite_note-126>
  * The Korean Women's Political Network, in which Shin helped found,
    also made it clear that "CEO Shin's decision was not discussed in
    advance with the Korean Women's Political Network and was irrelevant
    to the organizational decision."
  * Kim Min-jae, a spokesperson for the New Wave - Squid Party <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Wave_(political_party)> youth caucus,
    commented, "It is an opportunistic appearance to seize vested
    interests and complete chaos to sleep with the enemy in order to
    seize votes."
  * Justice Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Justice_Party_(South_Korea)> spokesman Kim Chang-in commented, "The
    change is bizarre."
  * Shin Ji-hye, standing representative of the Basic Income Party
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_Income_Party>, urged candidate
    Yoon Suk Yeol to reveal the national vision for what it is, saying,
    "Stop the show."
  * The Green Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Party_Korea>
    left a notice saying it would return the donations Shin Ji-ye
    received when she ran for the mayor of Seoul in 2018 under the Green
    Party banner.

On 23 December, two days after the recruitment of Shin Ji-ye, party
leader Lee Jun-seok <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jun-seok>, who
had a year-long conflict with Shin Ji-ye over gender politics, stepped
down from all his roles in the presidential campaign, and called for the
campaign committee to be overhauled.^[122] <#cite_note-koreaherald.com-127>

On 3 January 2022, after only 14 days, Shin Ji-ye resigned from her
position as senior vice-chair of the New Generation Policy Committee,
citing conflicts with Lee Jun-seok and plummeting poll numbers for Yoon
Suk-yeol.^[123] <#cite_note-128>

On 19 January 2022, Lee Soo-jung, a criminal psychology professor and
feminist, also quit the Yoon campaign. Lee resigned due to Yoon's wife's
comments about the MeToo movement <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
MeToo_movement> during an 8-hour long phone interview with TV
broadcaster MBC's investigative news show /Straight/, in which she
mocked victims of sexual assault.^[124] <#cite_note-129>


      Infighting in Yoon's campaign team and PPP[edit <https://
      en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=31>]

By January, as a result of infighting within Yoon's campaign team and
Yoon's dispute with party leader Lee Jun-seok, Lee Jae-myung reversed
Yoon's poll lead and built a healthy poll lead ranging from 6 to 10
points,^[122] <#cite_note-koreaherald.com-127> outside the margin of
error. The centrist Ahn Cheol-soo also ate into Yoon's support, gaining
support in the range of 10 to 15%.^[125] <#cite_note-130> ^[126]
<#cite_note-131> A Realmeter survey commissioned by YTN with 1,024
voters between the ages of 18 and 39 conducted showed that Yoon had only
18.4 percent support from respondents, trailing Lee Jae-myung at 33.4
percent and Ahn Cheol-soo at 19.1 percent, marking a plunge in support
from the youth demographic in contrast to the lead he had when he was
nominated for the PPP in this crucial demographic.^[127] <#cite_note-132>

Yoon Seok-yeol then disbanded his election campaign committee, following
weeks of internal dispute on 5 January.^[128] <#cite_note-disbanded-133>
The campaign had recruited former party leader and veteran campaigner
Kim Chong-in <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Chong-in> to be the
campaign manager, before the infighting took place and Yoon pointed out
that numerous leadership posts including the chief, subcommittee chiefs
and standing chairpersons and internal subcommittees slowed down the
decision-making process, which was one of Lee Jun-seok's criticisms of
his campaign.^[128] <#cite_note-disbanded-133>

On 3 January, Kim, the election committee's top chief, had made an
announcement of an overhaul of the committee without informing Yoon in
advance.^[129] <#cite_note-:2-134> As a result, Yoon reportedly sacked
Kim and reshuffled his campaign team, while "asking [Kim] to continue
giving advice”. However, Kim announced he had quit early on 5 January
even before Yoon proposed the disbandment, and said he had disagreements
with Yoon's campaign staff, leading to the parting of ways.^[130]
<#cite_note-135> Yoon appointed Rep. Kwon Yeong-se <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kwon_Yeong-se> as his new campaign chief.^[131]
<#cite_note-136>

However, on 6 January, PPP members began demanding the party chairman to
quit on grounds that he was damaging the party's chances of winning the
election, although the majority of the public blamed Yoon for the chaos
enveloping his campaign.^[132] <#cite_note-137> By the end of the same
day however, Yoon and Lee reached an agreement to put their long-running
feud behind them.^[133] <#cite_note-138>


      Sim Sang-jung suspends campaign activities[edit <https://
      en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=32>]

On 12 January 2022, The Justice Party candidate, Sim Sang-jung <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim_Sang-jung> suspended campaign activities and
went into seclusion amid low ratings, to craft "reform plans".^[134]
<#cite_note-139> A day later, her campaign chief and election committee
members decided to resign and the committee was "virtually disbanded,"
as key campaign leaders tendered their resignations.^[135] <#cite_note-140>

On 19 January 2022, Sim resumed campaign appearances with a visit to the
national office of the Green Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Green_Party_Korea>. Together, they discussed their combined plans to
combat climate change and pushed for an anti-discrimination law.^[136]
<#cite_note-141> There is currently no form of anti-discrimination
legislation in the Republic of Korea.^[137] <#cite_note-142>


      Bus accident deaths involving Ahn Cheol-soo's campaigners[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=33>]

On 15 February 2022, the first legal day of the presidential campaign,
two members of the People's Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Party_(South_Korea)> presidential campaign died in an apparent
accident with the campaign tour bus. The bus driver and the campaign
chair for the city of Nonsan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nonsan> died
of apparent carbon monoxide poisoning <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Carbon_monoxide_poisoning> inside the bus in the central city in Cheonan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheonan> around 5:24 PM local time. One
person was also rushed to a local hospital while unconscious. In
response, Ahn halted all scheduled appearances for the remainder of the
week.^[138] <#cite_note-143>


      Ahn's withdrawal from the campaign, endorsing Yoon Suk-yeol[edit
      <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=34>]

On 20 February 2022, Ahn clarified that there won't be further
negotiations over unification with Yoon Suk-yeol, a week after he
proposed a unified opposition campaign through opinion polls that ask
who will be more suitable for the presidency and to defeat Lee Jae-
myung, the nominee of the governing Democratic Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_of_Korea>.^[5] <#cite_note-:3-5>

However, on the night of 2 March 2022, hours after the last presidential
debate, Ahn met Yoon at the house of the brother-in-law of Chang Je-won
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chang_Je-won>, assemblymember for the
People Power Party, and a close aide to Yoon.^[/citation needed
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/] On the
morning of 3 March, Ahn and Yoon made a joint statement that the two
candidates decided to join forces to change the government. Ahn will be
involved in the takeover committee, in the case of Yoon's victory, and
the two parties will merge weeks after the election.^[6] <#cite_note-:
4-6> ^[139] <#cite_note-144>

The unification seemed to be over by most of the commentators, as ballot
papers including Ahn's name were already printed. In addition, absentee
ballots <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absentee_ballot> of overseas
residents have already been cast between 23 and 28 February. Those
voting on the day of the election will still see Ahn's name on the
ballot, even though ballots cast for Ahn will be counted invalid. After
the joint statement, the members' board of the People Party went down
due to an overflow of complaints of the members of the party.^[/citation
needed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/]

Ahn also faced criticisms over breaking his promise of achieving Third
Way <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_Way> politics and implementing
multi-party system <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-party_system> in
South Korean politics. Just days before the unification, he said "if you
vote for Yoon, you'll want to cut your finger after a year".^[140]
<#cite_note-145>

Ahn also secured his public image as "withdrawal", which is the Korean
word that sounds the same as Ahn's given name, Cheol-soo. This is the
fourth election in which Ahn withdrew his candidacy. Ahn withdrew in
2011 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2011_Seoul_mayoral_by-election> and
2021 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021_South_Korean_by-
elections#Mayor_of_Seoul> to Park Won-soon <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Park_Won-soon> and Oh Se-hoon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oh_Se-
hoon> respectively for the mayoralty of Seoul <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Seoul>, and in 2012 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2012_South_Korean_presidential_election> and 2022 to Moon Jae-in and
Yoon Suk-yeol respectively for the presidency.^[141] <#cite_note-146>


      Attack against Song Young-gil[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=35>]

On 7 March 2022, the Democratic Party president Song Young-gil <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Song_Young-gil> was attacked while campaigning for
the presidential candidate, Lee Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Lee_Jae-myung>, in Sinchon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sinchon>.^[142] <#cite_note-attack-147> ^[143] <#cite_note-attack1-148>
He was immediately brought to a nearby hospital, and was reportedly
safe.^[142] <#cite_note-attack-147> ^[143] <#cite_note-attack1-148>
Several Democratic MPs were criticised for labelling the incident as a
"far-right terrorism", although the suspect was reportedly a Democratic-
friendly YouTuber <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YouTube>.^[144]
<#cite_note-149> ^[145] <#cite_note-150>

/News1 <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=News1_(South_Korea)&action=edit&redlink=1>/ reported that the
incident is reminiscent of the 2006 local elections <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2006_South_Korean_local_elections>, when the then–
Grand National Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Grand_National_Party> (GNP) president Park Geun-hye <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Geun-hye> was stabbed while
campaigning.^[146] <#cite_note-gnp-151> The incident reportedly
contributed to an overwhelming victory of the GNP, including the Daejeon
mayorship <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Daejeon> election
where the GNP was expected to lose but won in the end.^[146]
<#cite_note-gnp-151> Based on this incident, the newspaper also analysed
that the attack against Song could possibly bring a positive consequence
to the Democratic Party and Lee Jae-myung.^[146] <#cite_note-gnp-151>


    Voting[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=36>]

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in South Korea <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/COVID-19_pandemic_in_South_Korea>, changes were made to voting. The
pandemic had reached record levels of daily infections in South Korea
around the time of the election amidst the arrival of the transmissible
SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SARS-
CoV-2_Omicron_variant>. A record 37% eligible voters voted early, and
South Korean electoral law was modified ahead of the election to permit
people with COVID-19 who were isolating <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Isolation_(health_care)> to vote - estimated at over 1 million people at
the time of the election.^[147] <#cite_note-:5-152> Polls were open
later than usual to allow people with COVID-19 to vote.^[147]
<#cite_note-:5-152>


    Exit polls[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=37>]

When polls closed, two separate exit polls released at 7:30 p.m. KST
gave conflicting results within the margin of error, showing the
election was too close to call.^[148] <#cite_note-153> ^[149]
<#cite_note-154>

*KBS, MBC, and SBS terrestrial broadcasting exit survey (margin of
error: 0.8%)*

Breakdown of KBS/MBC/SBS exit poll^[150] <#cite_note-155> Demographic
group 	Lee 	Yoon
Total vote 	47.8 	*48.4*
Age
18–29 years old 	*47.8* 	45.5
30–39 years old 	46.3 	*48.1*
40–49 years old 	*60.5* 	35.4
50–59 years old 	*52.4* 	43.9
60–69 years old 	32.8 	*64.8*
70 and older 	28.5 	*69.9*
Age by gender
18–29 years old men 	36.3 	*58.7*
18–29 years old women 	*58.0* 	33.8
30–39 years old men 	42.6 	*52.8*
30–39 years old women 	*49.7* 	43.8
40–49 years old men 	*61.0* 	35.2
40–49 years old women 	*60.0* 	35.6
50–59 years old men 	*55.0* 	41.8
50–59 years old women 	*50.1* 	45.8
60–69 years old men 	33.9 	*63.3*
60–69 years old women 	31.8 	*66.0*
70+ years old men 	25.6 	*72.5*
70+ years old women 	30.7 	*67.8*

*JTBC broadcasting exit survey*


    Results[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=38>]

The Korean Broadcasting System <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Korean_Broadcasting_System> was the first broadcaster to forecast that
Yoon would be the winner of the election at 3:22 a.m. KST on the morning
of 10 March.^[151] <#cite_note-156> Shortly after at 3:50 a.m.
KST,^[152] <#cite_note-157> Lee conceded defeat and congratulated Yoon
for his victory.^[153] <#cite_note-158> ^[154] <#cite_note-:0-159>
Yoon's victory margin of 0.73% made this the closest presidential
election result in South Korea.^[155] <#cite_note-160> ^[156]
<#cite_note-Al_Jazeera-161> Yoon called the result "a victory for the
people", and indicated that national unity for Koreans <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koreans> was his top priority.^[156] <#cite_note-
Al_Jazeera-161>

Lee won Jeju Island <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeju_Island>, Incheon
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incheon> and Gyeonggi Province <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyeonggi_Province> (the most populous province in
South Korea), where he was a former governor; however, the housing
crisis in Seoul <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul> swung the city and
its suburbs to the conservative Yoon with a 310,000 vote margin
(previously, liberal Moon Jae-in won Seoul twice in his two campaigns in
2012 and 2017). This allowed Yoon to overcome Lee nationwide by 247,000
raw votes. Lee won the Honam provinces of Jeolla and the city of Gwangju
with over 80% of votes; however Yoon's vote share of >10% was the best
result a conservative candidate had achieved in these liberal
strongholds.^[157] <#cite_note-162>

Candidate	Party	Votes	%
	Yoon Suk Yeol <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol>	People
Power Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People_Power_Party_(South_Korea)>	16,394,815	48.56
	Lee Jae-myung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung>	Democratic
Party of Korea <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_of_Korea>	16,147,738	47.83
	Sim Sang-jung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim_Sang-jung>	Justice
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_Party_(South_Korea)>	
803,358	2.38
	Huh Kyung-young <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huh_Kyung-young>	
National Revolutionary Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Revolutionary_Dividends_Party>	281,481	0.83
	Kim Jae-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Jae-yeon_(politician)>	
Progressive Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Progressive_Party_(South_Korea,_2017)>	37,366	0.11
	Cho Won-jin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cho_Won-jin>	Our Republican
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Our_Republican_Party_(2020)>	
25,972	0.08
	Oh Jun-ho	Basic Income Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Basic_Income_Party>	18,105	0.05
	Kim Min-chan	Korean Wave Alliance	17,305	0.05
	Lee Gyeong-hee	Korean Unification	11,708	0.03
	Lee Baek-yun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Baek-yun>	Labor Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Labor_Party_(South_Korea)>	9,176	0.03
	Kim Gyeong-jae	New Liberal Democratic Union	8,317	0.02
	Ok Un-ho	Saenuri Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Saenuri_Party_(2017)>	4,970	0.01
Total	33,760,311	100.00
Valid votes	33,760,311	99.10
Invalid/blank votes	307,542	0.90
Total votes	34,067,853	100.00
Registered voters/turnout	44,197,692	77.08
Source: Election results <https://search.naver.com/search.naver?
where=nexearch&sm=tab_etc&mra=bjFY&x_csa=%7B%22isMapTab%22%3Afalse%7D&pkid=7001&qvt=0&query=%EC%A0%9C20%EB%8C%80%20%EB%8C%80%ED%86%B5%EB%A0%B9%EC%84%A0%EA%B1%B0%20%EA%B0%9C%ED%91%9C%ED%98%84%ED%99%A9>


      By region[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=39>]


        Major candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=40>]

Breakdown of votes by region for candidates with at least 1% of the
total votes.

Region <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Administrative_divisions_of_South_Korea> 	Yoon Suk Yeol <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoon_Suk_Yeol> 	Lee Jae-myung <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Jae-myung> 	Sim Sang-jung <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim_Sang-jung>
		
Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	Votes 	%
Seoul <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul> 	*3,255,747* 	*50.6* 	
2,944,981 	45.7 	180,324 	2.8
Busan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Busan> 	*1,270,072* 	*58.3* 	
831,896 	38.1 	47,541 	2.2
Daegu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daegu> 	*1,199,888* 	*75.1* 	
345,045 	21.6 	31,131 	1.9
Incheon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incheon> 	878,560 	47.1 	
*913,320* 	*48.9* 	51,852 	2.8
Gwangju <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gwangju> 	124,511 	12.7 	
*830,058* 	*84.8* 	14,865 	1.5
Daejeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daejeon> 	*464,060* 	*49.6* 	
434,950 	46.4 	25,445 	2.7
Ulsan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ulsan> 	*396,321* 	*54.4* 	297,134
	40.8 	21,292 	2.9
Sejong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sejong_City> 	101,491 	44.1 	
*119,349* 	*51.9* 	6,780 	2.9
Gyeonggi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyeonggi_Province> 	3,965,341 	
45.6 	*4,428,151* 	*50.9* 	205,709 	2.4
Gangwon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gangwon_Province,_South_Korea> 	
*544,980* 	*54.2* 	419,644 	41.7 	25,031 	2.5
North Chungcheong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
North_Chungcheong_Province> 	*511,921* 	*50.7* 	455,853 	45.1 	26,557 	2.6
South Chungcheong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Chungcheong_Province> 	*670,283* 	*51.1* 	589,991 	45.0 	31,789 	2.4
North Jeolla <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Jeolla_Province> 	
176,809 	14.4 	*1,016,863* 	*83.0* 	19,451 	1.6
South Jeolla <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Jeolla_Province> 	
145,549 	11.4 	*1,094,872* 	*86.1* 	16,279 	1.3
North Gyeongsang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
North_Gyeongsang_Province> 	*1,278,922* 	*72.8* 	418,371 	23.8 	33,123 	1.9
South Gyeongsang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Gyeongsang_Province> 	*1,237,346* 	*58.2* 	794,130 	37.4 	52,591 	2.5
Jeju <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeju_Province> 	173,014 	42.7 	
*213,130* 	*52.6* 	13,598 	3.4
*Total* 	*16,394,815* 	*48.6* 	16,147,738 	47.8 	803,358 	2.4
Source: National Election Commission <http://info.nec.go.kr/>


        Minor candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=41>]

Breakdown of votes by region for candidates with less than 1% of the
total votes.

Region <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Administrative_divisions_of_South_Korea> 	Huh
Kyung-young <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huh_Kyung-young> 	Kim
Jae-yeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Jae-yeon_(politician)> 	Cho
Won-jin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cho_Won-jin> 	Oh
Jun-ho 	Kim
Min-chan 	Lee
Gyeong-hee 	Lee
Baek-yun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Baek-yun> 	Kim
Gyeong-jae 	Ok
Un-ho
								
Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	
Votes 	% 	Votes 	%
Seoul <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seoul> 	36,540 	0.6 	5,615 	0.1 	
4,657 	0.1 	3,829 	0.1 	1,907 	0.0 	1,333 	0.0 	1,571 	0.0 	1,791 	0.0 	
844 	0.0
Busan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Busan> 	21,990 	1.0 	2,799 	0.1 	
1,867 	0.1 	1,071 	0.0 	942 	0.0 	575 	0.0 	546 	0.0 	527 	0.0 	352 	0.0
Daegu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daegu> 	13,941 	0.9 	938 	0.1 	
2,824 	0.2 	892 	0.1 	619 	0.0 	472 	0.0 	344 	0.0 	451 	0.0 	261 	0.0
Incheon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incheon> 	16,733 	0.9 	1,593 	0.1
	1,378 	0.1 	1,116 	0.1 	758 	0.0 	511 	0.0 	508 	0.0 	449 	0.0 	276 	0.0
Gwangju <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gwangju> 	6,138 	0.6 	1,366 	0.1
	112 	0.0 	434 	0.0 	455 	0.0 	188 	0.0 	242 	0.0 	140 	0.0 	92 	0.0
Daejeon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daejeon> 	8,593 	0.9 	958 	0.1 	
588 	0.1 	566 	0.1 	395 	0.0 	258 	0.0 	223 	0.0 	227 	0.0 	138 	0.0
Ulsan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ulsan> 	9,234 	1.3 	2,180 	0.3 	685
	0.1 	375 	0.1 	333 	0.0 	234 	0.0 	308 	0.0 	185 	0.0 	109 	0.0
Sejong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sejong_City> 	1,594 	0.7 	181 	0.1
	121 	0.1 	100 	0.0 	88 	0.0 	66 	0.0 	50 	0.0 	48 	0.0 	23 	0.0
Gyeonggi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyeonggi_Province> 	63,207 	0.7
	8,768 	0.1 	5,897 	0.1 	4,151 	0.0 	3,192 	0.0 	1,927 	0.0 	1,919 	0.0
	1,990 	0.0 	1,124 	0.0
Gangwon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gangwon_Province,_South_Korea> 	
11,668 	1.2 	1,260 	0.1 	824 	0.1 	582 	0.1 	560 	0.1 	525 	0.1 	323 	
0.0 	262 	0.0 	181 	0.0
North Chungcheong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
North_Chungcheong_Province> 	11,165 	1.1 	1,083 	0.1 	779 	0.1 	614 	0.1
	653 	0.1 	698 	0.1 	385 	0.0 	288 	0.0 	213 	0.0
South Chungcheong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Chungcheong_Province> 	14,169 	1.1 	1,586 	0.1 	899 	0.1 	750 	0.1
	864 	0.1 	791 	0.1 	477 	0.0 	314 	0.0 	200 	0.0
North Jeolla <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Jeolla_Province> 	
7,975 	0.7 	896 	0.1 	299 	0.0 	542 	0.0 	1,464 	0.1 	409 	0.0 	377 	0.0
	199 	0.0 	135 	0.0
South Jeolla <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Jeolla_Province> 	
8,322 	0.7 	1,917 	0.2 	296 	0.0 	672 	0.1 	2,246 	0.2 	507 	0.0 	473 	
0.0 	304 	0.0 	179 	0.0
North Gyeongsang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
North_Gyeongsang_Province> 	18,028 	1.0 	1,763 	0.1 	2,431 	0.1 	964 	
0.1 	1,046 	0.1 	1,607 	0.1 	535 	0.0 	550 	0.0 	356 	0.0
South Gyeongsang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Gyeongsang_Province> 	28,645 	1.3 	3,892 	0.2 	2,044 	0.1 	1,180 	
0.1 	1,473 	0.1 	1,379 	0.1 	749 	0.0 	491 	0.0 	424 	0.0
Jeju <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeju_Province> 	3,539 	0.9 	571 	0.1
	271 	0.1 	267 	0.1 	310 	0.1 	228 	0.1 	146 	0.0 	101 	0.0 	63 	0.0
*Total* 	281.481 	0.8 	37,366 	0.1 	25,972 	0.1 	18,105 	0.1 	17,305 	
0.1 	11,708 	0.0 	9,176 	0.0 	8,317 	0.0 	4,970 	0.0
Source: National Election Commission <http://info.nec.go.kr/>

  *

    Sim Sang-jung (Justice Party)'s vote share by municipalities
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
    2022_South_Korean_presidential_election,_Justice_Party_vote_share.svg>

    Sim Sang-jung <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim_Sang-jung> (Justice
    Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_Party_(South_Korea)>)'s
    vote share by municipalities


    Aftermath[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=42>]

Commentators suggested that the Democrats' defeat, and the comeback of
the conservatives was unforeseen given their landslide defeat in the
2017 election after the Park Geun-hye impeachment. The incumbent
liberals' failure to provide high-quality housing at affordable prices,
double standards in the government's anti-corruption campaign, and
limited success in achieving promised reforms to social policy despite
an overwhelming majority in the National Assembly, and failure to
nurture new political talents unlike the PPP were reasons cited for the
defeat of the Democrats.^[158] <#cite_note-163>


    Notes[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=43>]

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-110>* Resigned 12 February 2022, urging the
    unification of opposition power.
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-116>* On December 21, 2021, the political party was
    quietly disbanded. She quietly gave up running without registering
    as a candidate after her husband was sued for sexual assault.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-117>* Did not complete candidacy requirements for the
    National Elections Commission
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-118>* Resigned 10 February 2022 citing health issues.
 5. *^ <#cite_ref-120>* Did not complete candidacy requirements for the
    National Elections Commission


    References[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2022_South_Korean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=44>]

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-1>* "중앙선거관리위원회 선거통계시스템" <http://
    info.nec.go.kr/electioninfo/viewAccessError.xhtml>. /info.nec.go.kr/.
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-2>* Hyun-woo, Nam (9 March 2022). "Yoon Suk-yeol wins
    presidential election" <https://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/nation/
    2022/03/803_325233.html>. Korea Times. Retrieved 9 March 2022.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-3>* Sang-Hun, Choe (9 March 2022). "Live Updates:
    Opposition's Yoon Wins Tight Race for South Korean Presidency"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/08/world/korean-election>. /
    The New York Times/. Retrieved 9 March 2022.
 4. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto4_4-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto4_4-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-auto4_4-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-auto4_4-3>
    "(LEAD) Opposition parties' merger talks end in failure: Ahn"
    <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210816001951315>. Yonhap News Agency
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 16 August 2021.
 5. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:3_5-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:3_5-1>
    "Ahn says merger talks have failed while Yoon insists he is working
    on it" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20220225000600>. /The
    Korea Herald <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. 25
    February 2022.
 6. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:4_6-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:4_6-1>
    "S. Korean conservatives unify as 1 leaves presidential race"
    <https://apnews.com/article/elections-south-korea-ahn-cheol-soo-
    ff73ccab6e79c4e2e66fd4287b0ba116>. /Associated Press <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>/. 3 March 2022.
 7. *^ <#cite_ref-7>* McCurry, Justin (10 March 2017). "Park Geun-hye:
    South Korean court removes president over scandal" <https://
    www.theguardian.com/world/2017/mar/10/south-korea-president-park-
    geun-hye-constitutional-court-impeachment>. /The Guardian/.
    Retrieved 5 March 2022.
 8. *^ <#cite_ref-8>* Kwon, K. J.; Boykoff, Pamela; Griffiths, James (10
    May 2017). "South Korea election: Moon Jae-in declared winner"
    <https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/09/asia/south-korea-election/
    index.html>. /CNN/. Retrieved 5 March 2022.
 9. *^ <#cite_ref-9>* "South Korea's governing party wins election by a
    landslide" <https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/04/south-korea-
    ruling-party-wins-election-landslide-200416000355845.html>. Al
    Jazeera. 16 April 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
10. *^ <#cite_ref-10>* "How young voters, once solid supporters of
    liberal causes, turned against Moon's party in by-elections"
    <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210409002300315>. Yonhap News Agency
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 9 April 2021.
    Retrieved 10 April 2021.
11. *^ <#cite_ref-11>* Youngmi, Kim (29 May 2021). "Will resurgent
    misogyny undo South Korea's progress on gender equality?" <https://
    www.eastasiaforum.org/2021/05/29/will-resurgent-misogyny-undo-south-
    koreas-progress-gender-equality/>. /East Asia Forum <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Asia_Forum>/. Edinburgh. Retrieved 6 June
    2021.
12. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto6_12-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto6_12-1> "Underdog's ascent to PPP leadership mirrors young
    voters' frustration with political establishment" <https://
    en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210611007600315?section=national/politics>.
    Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Yonhap_News_Agency>. 11 June 2021. Retrieved 1 July 2021.
13. *^ <#cite_ref-13>* Da-min, Jung (29 June 2021). "Assembly stints no
    longer prerequisite for presidential bid" <https://
    www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/nation/2021/06/356_311318.html>. /The Korea
    Times/. Retrieved 7 July 2021.
14. *^ <#cite_ref-14>* "IFES Election Guide | Elections: South Korea
    President 2017" <https://www.electionguide.org/elections/id/3014/
    >. /www.electionguide.org/. 2017. Retrieved 5 March 2022.
15. *^ <#cite_ref-15>* "TBS" <http://www.tbs.seoul.kr/news/bunya.do?
    &typ_800=N&seq_800=10127679>. /Tbs.seoul.kr/. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
16. *^ <#cite_ref-16>* Andrew Walter. "Political Populism : Eroding
    Asia's Complex Interdependence?" <https://www.rsis.edu.sg/wp-
    content/uploads/2019/10/CO19219.pdf> (PDF). /Rsis.edu.sg/. Retrieved
    16 January 2022.
17. *^ <#cite_ref-17>* Park, S. Nathan (16 April 2020). "South Korea Is
    a Liberal Country Now" <https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/04/16/south-
    korea-is-a-liberal-country-now/>. /Foreign Policy/. Retrieved 30
    April 2020.
18. *^ <#cite_ref-18>* 더불어민주당 <https://theminjoo.kr/>. /theminjoo.kr/.
19. *^ <#cite_ref-19>* Fifield, Anna (2 May 2017). "South Korea's likely
    next president asks the U.S. to respect its democracy" <https://
    www.washingtonpost.com/world/south-koreas-likely-next-president-
    warns-the-us-not-to-meddle-in-its-democracy/
    2017/05/02/2295255e-29c1-11e7-9081-f5405f56d3e4_story.html>. /The
    Washington Post <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_Washington_Post>/. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
20. *^ <#cite_ref-20>* Larsen, Morten Soendergaard (13 April 2020).
    "South Korea Holds World's First National Coronavirus Election"
    <https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/04/13/south-korea-first-national-
    coronavirus-election/>. /Foreign Policy/. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
21. *^ <#cite_ref-21>* 친문 압도적 지지 '달콤한 독배' 받아든 이낙연
    <https://m.hankookilbo.com/News/Read/A2020083117220004144?
    t=20200913163621>. 한국일보 (in Korean). 1 September 2020. Retrieved
    13 September 2020.
22. *^ <#cite_ref-22>* "Proposal to pardon former presidents parked
    after backlash" <https://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?
    ud=20210104000856>. 4 January 2021.
23. *^ <#cite_ref-autogenerated1_23-0>* "Lee Nak-yon leads polls of
    prospective presidential candidates" <http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/
    www/nation/2020/05/356_288650.html>. /The Korea Times <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Times>/. 28 April 2020. Retrieved 30
    April 2020.
24. *^ <#cite_ref-24>* "South Korea Prime Minister Chung Resigns in Bid
    For Presidency" <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-04-16/
    south-korea-prime-minister-chung-resigns-in-bid-for-presidency>. /
    Bloomberg/. 16 April 2021. Retrieved 17 May 2021.
25. *^ <#cite_ref-25>* 이낙연 캠프는 '경선불복론' 무리수 왜 던졌을까
    <https://www.nocutnews.co.kr/news/5605254>. 10 August 2021.
    Retrieved 11 September 2021.
26. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-en.yna.co.kr_26-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-en.yna.co.kr_26-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-en.yna.co.kr_26-2>
    "(2nd LD) DP opts not to postpone primaries for next year's
    presidential election" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20210625004252315?section=national/politics>. /En.yna.co.kr/. 25
    June 2021. Retrieved 26 June 2021.
27. *^ <#cite_ref-27>* "DP Set to Discuss Delay in Presidential Primary,
    Tension Expected" <http://world.kbs.co.kr/service/news_view.htm?
    lang=e&Seq_Code=162306>. /World.kbs.co.kr/. 21 June 2021. Retrieved
    22 June 2021.
28. *^ <#cite_ref-28>* "DP postpones presidential primary by 5 weeks
    amid COVID-19 resurgence" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20210719010100315?section=national/politics>. /En.yna.co.kr/. 19
    July 2021. Retrieved 19 July 2021.
29. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto1_29-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto1_29-1> "(2nd LD) Lee Jae-myung confirmed as DP presidential
    candidate: party chief" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20211011001952325?section=national/politics#none>. /
    En.yna.co.kr/. 11 October 2021. Retrieved 11 October 2021.
30. *^ <#cite_ref-30>* "(4th LD) Ex-PM Lee Nak-yon concedes defeat in
    Democratic Party presidential primary" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20211013008054315?section=national/politics>. /En.yna.co.kr/. 13
    October 2021. Retrieved 13 October 2021.
31. *^ <#cite_ref-31>* "Poll: Fmr. PM Lee Nak-yon Leading Potential
    Contenders for 2022 Presidential Race" <http://world.kbs.co.kr/
    service/news_view.htm?lang=e&Seq_Code=152425>. /World.kbs.co.kr/.
    Retrieved 30 April 2020.
32. *^ <#cite_ref-32>* "(LEAD) Gyeonggi governor launches presidential
    bid, vowing to reduce inequality" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20210701001051315?section=national/politics>. Yonhap News Agency
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. July 2021.
    Retrieved 1 July 2021.
33. *^ <#cite_ref-33>* "South Korea Election Win Turns Moon Premier Into
    Possible Rival" <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-04-20/
    south-korea-election-win-turns-moon-premier-into-possible-rival>. /
    Bloomberg.com/. 20 April 2020. Retrieved 4 October 2020.
34. *^ <#cite_ref-34>* "Will Prime Minister Lee Nak-yon make Korea's
    next President after Moon?" <http://www.koreapost.com/news/
    articleView.html?idxno=9251>. /The Korea Post/ (in Korean). 7 June
    2019. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
35. *^ <#cite_ref-35>* "South Korea election win turns former premier
    into possible Moon rival" <https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/
    2020/04/21/asia-pacific/politics-diplomacy-asia-pacific/south-korea-
    lee-nak-yon/>. /The Japan Times/. 21 April 2020. Retrieved 30 April
    2020.
36. *^ <#cite_ref-36>* "(LEAD) Ex-Prime Minister Lee Nak-yon declares
    presidential bid" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210705002151315?
    section=national/politics>. Yonhap News Agency <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 5 July 2021. Retrieved 5
    July 2021.
37. *^ <#cite_ref-37>* "Ruling party lawmaker declares bid for
    president" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210509000800315>. Yonhap
    News Angency. 9 May 2021. Retrieved 9 May 2021.
38. *^ <#cite_ref-38>* "Choo Mi-ae announces her candidacy for
    president... "I will make a country where people are treated""
    <https://www.hani.co.kr/arti/politics/politics_general/
    1000057.html>. 20 June 2021. Retrieved 20 June 2021.
39. *^ <#cite_ref-39>* "DP narrows field of presidential contenders down
    to six in 1st-stage primary" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?
    ud=20210711000288>. /The Korea Herald <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. Yonhap News Agency <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 11 July 2021. Retrieved
    12 July 2021.
40. *^ <#cite_ref-40>* [한국언론의 세대교체 ◆브레이크뉴스◆] 양승조 충남
    지사, 제20대 대통령선거 출마 공식 선언 <https://m.breaknews.com/
    805775>. 한국언론의 세대교체 ◆브레이크뉴스◆ (in Korean). 12 May
    2021. Retrieved 17 May 2021.^[/permanent dead link <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Link_rot>/]
41. *^ <#cite_ref-41>* 최문순 강원도지사 대선 출마… "지사직 유지하며 경
    선 도전" <https://www.donga.com/news/Politics/article/all/
    20210601/107211861/1>. 1 June 2021. Retrieved 17 June 2021.
42. *^ <#cite_ref-kbiz_42-0>* '원조친노' 이광재, 대선 출마 선언…"대한민
    국 운명 바꿀 것" <https://newsis.com/view/?
    id=NISX20210527_0001455378&cID=10301&pID=10300>. 27 May 2021.
    Retrieved 27 May 2021.
43. *^ <#cite_ref-federation_43-0>* 이광재 대선 출마선언 "시대·선수·세대
    교체…광재형으로 불리면 영광" <http://news.khan.co.kr/kh_news/
    khan_art_view.html?artid=202105271140001&code=910402>. 27 May 2021.
    Retrieved 27 May 2021.
44. *^ <#cite_ref-smes_44-0>* '盧의 오른팔' 이광재, '미래' 기치로 대권도
    전…"한국을 G3로" <https://www.yna.co.kr/view/AKR20210527073400001?
    input=1195m>. Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Yonhap_News_Agency>. 27 May 2021. Retrieved 27 May 2021.
45. *^ <#cite_ref-45>* "DP'S presidential nomination race gets 1 person
    tighter" <https://koreajoongangdaily.joins.com/2021/07/05/national/
    politics/Chung-Syekyun-Lee-Nakyon-Democratic-Party/
    20210705190600374.html>. /Korea JoongAng Daily/. 5 July 2021.
    Retrieved 8 July 2021.
46. *^ <#cite_ref-46>* "(News Focus) Moon's remaining presidency rests
    much on by-election outcome, with political realignment looming"
    <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210402006700315>. /En.yna.co.kr/. 3
    April 2021. Retrieved 3 April 2021.
47. *^ <#cite_ref-47>* "Former Prime Minister Chung announces run for
    president" <https://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/nation/
    2021/06/113_310669.html>. /The Korea Times <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Times>/. 17 June 2021. Retrieved 17
    June 2021.
48. *^ <#cite_ref-48>* "Former Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun decides to
    drop out of ruling party's primary" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20210913007051315>. /Yonhap News Agency/. 13 September 2021.
    Retrieved 13 September 2021.
49. *^ <#cite_ref-49>* 김두관, 세종시에서 대선 출마선언 <https://
    breaknews.com/sub_read.html?uid=817913&section=sc2&section2=>. 1
    July 2021. Retrieved 6 July 2021.
50. *^ <#cite_ref-50>* 김두관 "경선 후보 사퇴..이재명에게 압도적 지지 보
    내달라" <https://imnews.imbc.com/news/2021/politics/article/
    6303003_34866.html>. 26 September 2021. Retrieved 27 September 2021.
51. *^ <#cite_ref-51>* '의석 113석' 미래통합당 출범…오늘 의원총회서 상견
    례 <https://web.archive.org/web/20200218131709/http://
    news.tvchosun.com/site/data/html_dir/
    2020/02/18/2020021890024.html>. /news.tvchosun.com/ (in Korean). 18
    February 2020. Archived from the original <http://news.tvchosun.com/
    site/data/html_dir/2020/02/18/2020021890024.html> on 18 February
    2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
52. *^ <#cite_ref-52>* Alexandra Field; Jo Shelley; James Griffiths (19
    October 2017). "South Korean opposition leader: Nukes are the only
    way to guarantee peace" <https://www.cnn.com/2017/10/18/asia/south-
    korea-trump-nukes/index.html>. CNN. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
53. *^ <#cite_ref-53>* "South Korea's governing party wins election by a
    landslide" <https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/04/south-korea-
    ruling-party-wins-election-landslide-200416000355845.html>. Al
    Jazeera. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
54. *^ <#cite_ref-54>* Mullany, Gerry (8 May 2017). "South Korea's
    Presidential Election: A Look at the Pivotal Issues" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2017/05/08/world/asia/south-korea-election-
    president.html>. /The New York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_New_York_Times>/.
55. *^ <#cite_ref-55>* "[Editorial] The United Future Party is just a
    throwback to Park Geun-hye's Saenuri Party" <https://
    english.hani.co.kr/arti/english_edition/english_editorials/
    928716.html>. /english.hani.co.kr/.
56. *^ <#cite_ref-56>* "COVID-19 Factor Powers South Korea's Ruling
    Party to Historic Victory" <https://thediplomat.com/2020/04/
    covid-19-factor-powers-south-koreas-ruling-party-to-historic-
    victory/>. /Thediplomat.com/. Retrieved 9 May 2020.
57. *^ <#cite_ref-57>* 윤석열, 차기 대통령감 반열에…PK서 홍준표와 공동 4
    위 [한국갤럽] <http://www.donga.com/news/article/all/
    20200117/99273550/2>. 17 January 2020. Retrieved 20 January 2020.
58. *^ <#cite_ref-58>* [대권주자 지지율] 윤석열, 1%로 대권주자 반열에 올
    랐다… 이낙연 24%, 황교안 9%, 안철수 4% <https://www.sisaweek.com/
    news/articleView.html?idxno=130152>. 17 January 2020. Retrieved 20
    January 2020.
59. *^ <#cite_ref-59>* "Chief prosecutor tops poll of presidential
    hopefuls" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210103001200315?
    section=national/politics>. /Yonhap News Agency/. 3 January 2021.
    Retrieved 3 January 2021.
60. *^ <#cite_ref-60>* "Ex-prosecutor general does not rule out joining
    main opposition party" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20210701006300315?section=national/politics>. 1 July 2021.
    Retrieved 1 July 2021.
61. *^ <#cite_ref-61>* 대권도전 31일 만에 윤석열 "정권교체 위해 제1야당
    입당"(상보) <https://www.news1.kr/articles/?4388966>. 30 July 2021.
    Retrieved 30 July 2021.
62. *^ <#cite_ref-62>* [종합] 국민의힘 입당한 윤석열, 결단까지 '한달' 걸
    렸다 <https://www.etoday.co.kr/news/view/2049580>. 30 July 2021.
    Retrieved 30 July 2021.
63. *^ <#cite_ref-63>* 윤석열, 우여곡절 끝 국민의힘 입당…野 주자들 "환
    영"(종합) <https://www.edaily.co.kr/news/read?
    newsId=02440326629119768&mediaCodeNo=257&OutLnkChk=Y>. 30 July 2021.
    Retrieved 30 July 2021.
64. *^ <#cite_ref-64>* 유청모 (1 October 2019). "Lee Nak-yon, Hwang Kyo-
    ahn lead poll of prospective presidential candidates" <https://
    en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20191001003600315>. Yonhap News Agency
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. Retrieved 9 May
    2020.
65. *^ <#cite_ref-65>* "Lee Nak-yon, Hwang Kyo-ahn lead poll of
    prospective presidential candidates" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20191001003600315>. Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 1 October 2019.
66. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto_66-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto_66-1> [인터뷰] 홍준표 "이재명 기본소득 사회주의 배급제…부자에
    돈 쓸 자유줘야" <https://www.mk.co.kr/news/politics/view/
    2021/06/624283/>. 28 June 2021. Retrieved 7 July 2021.
67. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto2_67-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto2_67-1> 유승민 "2022년 大選이 마지막 도전…보수 단일후보 되겠다"
    <https://biz.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/
    2020/05/26/2020052602534.html>. 26 May 2020. Retrieved 7 July 2021.
68. *^ <#cite_ref-68>* "(LEAD) Ex-chief state auditor joins main
    opposition party in apparent bid to run for presidency" <https://
    en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210715003651315?section=national/politics>.
    Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Yonhap_News_Agency>. 15 June 2021. Retrieved 17 July 2021.
69. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Yoon_joins_PPP_1_69-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Yoon_joins_PPP_1_69-1> Kim, Sarah (30 July 2021). "Yoon
    Suk Yeol signs on with opposition PPP" <https://
    koreajoongangdaily.joins.com/2021/07/30/national/politics/People-
    Power-Party-Yoon-Seokyoul-prosecutor-general/
    20210730173509518.html>. /Korea JoongAng Daily/. Retrieved 3 August
    2021.
70. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto3_70-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto3_70-1> 'DJ 적자' 장성민 전 의원 국민의힘 입당…"정권교체·통합정
    치 이룰 것" <http://www.wikileaks-kr.org/news/articleView.html?
    idxno=112171>. 위키리크스한국. 2 August 2021.
71. *^ <#cite_ref-71>* "Feud intensifies between PPP head, top
    presidential contender" <https://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/nation/
    2021/08/356_313812.html>. /The Korea Times <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Times>/. 12 August 2021. Retrieved
    10 September 2021.
72. *^ <#cite_ref-72>* "Fierce internal disputes" <https://
    www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/opinion/2021/09/202_314107.html>. /The
    Korea Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Times>/. 18
    August 2021. Retrieved 11 September 2021.
73. *^ <#cite_ref-73>* "Fracas within main opposition gets worse"
    <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20210823000886>. /The Korea
    Herald <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. 23 August
    2021. Retrieved 11 September 2021.
74. *^ <#cite_ref-74>* "(3rd LD) Former chief prosecutor booked on
    multiple charges in political meddling probe" <https://en.yna.co.kr/
    view/AEN20210910003853315?section=national/politics>. /Yonhap News
    Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>/. 10
    September 2021. Retrieved 10 September 2021.
75. *^ <#cite_ref-75>* "Hong steals lead from scandal-embroiled Yoon"
    <https://english.hani.co.kr/arti/english_edition/e_national/
    1011291.html>. /The Hankyoreh <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_Hankyoreh>/. 10 September 2021. Retrieved 11 September 2021.
76. *^ <#cite_ref-:1_76-0>* "Loose cannon? Yoon Seok-youl snagged by
    image conundrum over gaffes, quirky habits" <https://en.yna.co.kr/
    view/AEN20210806007100315>. Yonhap News Agency <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 6 August 2021. Retrieved
    20 October 2021.
77. *^ <#cite_ref-77>* "Opposition presidential contender causes stir
    with praise of ex-president Chun" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20211020004000315?section=national/politics>. Yonhap News Agency
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 20 October 2021.
    Retrieved 20 October 2021.
78. *^ <#cite_ref-78>* "(2nd LD) Yoon accused of 'mocking' nation with
    pic of dog with apple" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20211022005152315?section=national/politics>. Yonhap News Agency
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 22 October 2021.
    Retrieved 23 October 2021.
79. *^ <#cite_ref-79>* "(LEAD) Ex-Prosecutor General Yoon launches
    presidential bid, vows to rebuild rule of law, justice" <https://
    en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210629006051315?section=national/politics>. /
    En.yna.co.kr/. 29 June 2021. Retrieved 29 June 2021.
80. *^ <#cite_ref-80>* Jun-tae, Ko (5 November 2021). "Yoon Suk Yeol
    picked as presidential nominee for People Power Party" <http://
    www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20211105000575>. /The Korea Herald/.
    Retrieved 5 November 2021.
81. *^ <#cite_ref-81>* Park, Han-sol (11 October 2020). "Jeju governor
    announces presidential bid" <https://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/
    nation/2021/03/356_297460.html>. /The Korea Times/. Retrieved 23
    June 2021.
82. *^ <#cite_ref-82>* "(LEAD) Main opposition's presidential candidates
    shortlisted to 4, ex-Jeju Gov. Won makes cut" <https://en.yna.co.kr/
    view/AEN20211008003451315?section=national/politics#none>. 8 October
    2021. Retrieved 10 October 2021.
83. *^ <#cite_ref-83>* '이준석 열풍' 속 대권도전 하태경… "젊은 사람 용기
    필요해" [출처] 경기신문 <https://www.kgnews.co.kr/mobile/
    article.html?no=650978>. /Kgnews.co.kr/. 11 June 2021. Retrieved 22
    June 2021.
84. *^ <#cite_ref-84>* "Fmr. UFP Leader Announces Bid to Run in 2022
    Presidential Race" <http://world.kbs.co.kr/service/news_view.htm?
    lang=e&Seq_Code=162566>. /World.kbs.co.kr/. Retrieved 6 July 2021.
85. *^ <#cite_ref-85>* 안상수, 대선 출마 선언 "권력분산 대통령제 개헌하
    겠다" <https://www.sedaily.com/NewsVIew/22OQRTGI17>. /Sedaily.kr/
    (in Korean). July 2021. Retrieved 8 July 2021.
86. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-As_ex-
    Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt_86-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-As_ex-
    Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt_86-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-As_ex-
    Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt_86-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-As_ex-
    Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt_86-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-As_ex-
    Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt_86-4> ^/*f*/ <#cite_ref-As_ex-
    Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt_86-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-As_ex-
    Prosecutor_General_Yoon_'falt_86-6> "As ex-Prosecutor General Yoon
    'falters,' new opposition presidential hopefuls rise" <https://
    en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210621010600315?section=national/politics>. /
    En.yna.co.kr/. 22 June 2021. Retrieved 22 June 2021.
87. *^ <#cite_ref-87>* "BAI chief to soon offer resignation amid
    presidential bid speculation: source" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20210625004000315?section=national/politics>. /En.yna.co.kr/. 25
    June 2021. Retrieved 26 June 2021.
88. *^ <#cite_ref-88>* "Former judge and BAI head Choe Jae-hyeong
    announces bid" <https://koreajoongangdaily.joins.com/2021/08/04/
    national/politics/Choe-Jaehyeong-Yoon-Seokyoul/
    20210804165900413.html>. /Koreajoongangdaily.joins.com/. 4 August
    2021. Retrieved 4 August 2021.
89. *^ <#cite_ref-89>* "Former rivals join forces" <https://
    en.yna.co.kr/view/PYH20211016057200315>. /En.yna.co.kr/. 16 October
    2021. Retrieved 16 October 2021.
90. *^ <#cite_ref-90>* 국힘 장기표, 대선 출마 선언, "구시대 이념 논쟁 벗
    어나야" <http://www.ksilbo.co.kr/news/articleView.html?
    idxno=905951>. /ksilbo.co.kr/ (in Korean). 6 July 2021. Retrieved 10
    July 2021.
91. *^ <#cite_ref-91>* 'DJ적자' 장성민, 국민의힘 입당 검토… "반문 빅텐트
    치자" <https://www.chosun.com/politics/assembly/2021/06/24/
    JCYSRT3KIFEEJDU2U7OUUG2VJA/>. 24 June 2021. Retrieved 10 July 2021.
92. *^ <#cite_ref-92>* 장성민, 대선 출마 선언 "위기의 대한민국 바로잡겠
    다" <https://www.chosun.com/politics/
    2021/08/15/6L6H2ZLVLFGUFJGBT7CC5UYE3Y/>. /조선일보/. 15 August 2021.
93. *^ <#cite_ref-93>* 윤희숙 대선 출사표 "경제 굳은살 잘라내겠다"
    <https://www.hani.co.kr/arti/politics/assembly/1001930.html>. /
    Hani.co.kr/ (in Korean). 2 July 2021. Retrieved 8 July 2021.
94. *^ <#cite_ref-94>* "(LEAD) Main opposition lawmaker offers to give
    up seat, end presidential bid over father's land deal" <https://
    en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210825005551315>. Yonhap News Agency
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 25 August 2021.
95. *^ <#cite_ref-95>* 김태호, 대선출마 선언.."공존의 대한민국 만들겠다"
    <https://news.v.daum.net/v/khmYD1asM5>. /이데일리/.
96. *^ <#cite_ref-96>* 김태호, 대선출마 포기.."분열은 필패" <https://
    news.v.daum.net/v/kDRUAOYWNL>. /헤럴드경제/. Retrieved 16 January 2022.
97. *^ <#cite_ref-97>* "Yoon Seok-youl signs on with opposition PPP"
    <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210816001951315?section=national/
    politics>. /Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Yonhap_News_Agency>/. 16 August 2021. Retrieved 21 August 2021.
98. *^ <#cite_ref-98>* '대선출마' 심상정, 라이더보호법 발의…"안전배달료
    도입" <https://www.yna.co.kr/view/AKR20210818075400001>. 연합뉴스
    (in Korean). 18 August 2021.
99. *^ <#cite_ref-99>* 이정미 대선 출사표 "돌봄 대통령·페미니스트 대통령
    되겠다" <https://m.khan.co.kr/article/202108231030001>. 경향신문 (in
    Korean). 23 August 2021.
100. *^ <#cite_ref-100>* 국민의당 <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220120011347/https://peopleparty.kr/>. /peopleparty.kr/. Archived
    from the original <https://peopleparty.kr/> on 20 January 2022.
    Retrieved 12 October 2021.
101. *^ <#cite_ref-101>* Ji-hye, Shin (1 November 2021). "Ahn declares
    third bid for presidency, vows to create a technology-oriented
    Korea" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20211101000837>. /The
    Korea Herald/. Retrieved 1 November 2021.
102. *^ <#cite_ref-102>* "Ahn Cheol-soo declares his 3rd presidential
    run" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20211101002600315?section=news>.
    Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Yonhap_News_Agency>. 1 November 2021. Retrieved 1 November 2021.
103. *^ <#cite_ref-103>* "Ahn Cheol-soo says unifying candidacies with
    main opposition party 'impossible'" <http://www.koreaherald.com/
    view.php?ud=20211103000149>. /The Korea Herald/. 3 November 2021.
    Retrieved 3 November 2021.
104. *^ <#cite_ref-104>* 이동환 (4 November 2021). '단독출마' 안철수, 국
    민의당 대선후보 확정…찬성 92% <https://www.yna.co.kr/view/
    AKR20211104160800001> (in Korean). Yonhap News Agency <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. Retrieved 22 December 2021.
105. *^ <#cite_ref-105>* "바보 비아냥 감수하겠다" 안철수 국민의당 대선후
    보 수락 <https://www.seoul.co.kr/news/newsView.php?
    id=20211104500169>. /서울신문 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Seoul_Shinmun>/ (in Korean). 4 November 2021. Retrieved 22 December
    2021.
106. *^ <#cite_ref-106>* "Ahn backs Yoon for presidency and drops out of
    race" <https://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/nation/
    2022/03/803_324845.html>. /Yeonhap/. The Korea Times. 3 March 2022.
    Retrieved 29 March 2022.
107. *^ <#cite_ref-107>* "Ahn Cheol-soo to announce 3rd presidential run"
    <http://m.koreaherald.com/amp/view.php?ud=20211031000047>. /
    M.koreaherald.com/. Retrieved 16 January 2022.
108. *^ <#cite_ref-108>* 허경영, 세번째 대선 출마…행주산성서 행주치마 입
    는다 <https://www.joongang.co.kr/article/24124928>. 중앙일보. 10
    August 2021.
109. *^ <#cite_ref-109>* 조원진, 내달 4일 대선출마 선언 "국민의힘으로 정
    권교체 불가능" <https://www.news1.kr/articles/4445025>. 뉴스1. 27
    September 2021.
110. *^ <#cite_ref-111>* "Oh Jun-ho declares his candidacy as a
    presidential candidate for the Basic Income Party, 'basic income of
    600,000 won per month'" <https://www.seoul.co.kr/news/newsView.php?
    id=20211111500206>. /Seoul.co.kr/. 11 November 2021. Retrieved 17
    January 2022.
111. *^ <#cite_ref-112>* "The also-rans: South Korea's long-shot
    presidential candidates" <https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/
    20220307-the-also-rans-south-korea-s-long-shot-presidential-
    candidates>. /France 24/. 7 March 2022. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
112. *^ <#cite_ref-113>* 손학규 “출마 기자회견 하겠다”…네 번째 대권 도전
    예고 <https://www.hani.co.kr/arti/politics/politics_general/
    1021132.html>. /Hani.co.kr/. 29 November 2021. Retrieved 16 January
    2022.
113. *^ <#cite_ref-114>* "손학규, 대선후보 사퇴 "많이 부족했고, 조용히 살
    겠다"" <https://www.chosun.com/politics/election2022/2022/01/27/
    IUW7ZKQMW5GXPP5UI3ALNUBHBE/>. /조선일보/. 27 January 2022.
114. *^ <#cite_ref-115>* 참세상 :: 윤곽 드러나는 사회주의 좌파 대선 후보
    <http://www.newscham.net/news/view.php?board=news&nid=106382>. /
    Newscham.net/. 25 November 2021. Retrieved 16 January 2022.
115. *^ <#cite_ref-119>* "[대선 D-30] '우리도 있다'…허경영 등 군소후보도
    한표 호소" <https://web.archive.org/web/20220217001534/https://
    www.mk.co.kr/news/politics/view/2022/02/105821/>. /매일경제/. 6
    February 2022. Archived from the original <https://www.mk.co.kr/
    news/politics/view/2022/02/105821/> on 17 February 2022. Retrieved
    10 March 2022.
116. *^ <#cite_ref-121>* @RFrankVienna (7 January 2022). "According to a
    Gallup survey (2 choices possible), South Koreans expect their new
    president to focus mainly on reviving the economy and solving the
    real estate problem. Relations with North Korea are clearly not a
    priority for 95% of respondents" <https://twitter.com/RFrankVienna/
    status/1479335361860022275> (Tweet). Retrieved 16 January 2022 – via
    Twitter <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twitter>.
117. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-gallup.co.kr_122-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-gallup.co.kr_122-1> 한국갤럽조사연구소 <https://
    www.gallup.co.kr/gallupdb/reportContent.asp?seqNo=1264>. /
    Gallup.co.kr/. Retrieved 16 January 2022.
118. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto5_123-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto5_123-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-auto5_123-2> "South Korea's Mud-
    Slinging Primary Campaign Nears End" <https://www.voanews.com/a/
    south-korea-s-mud-slinging-primary-campaign-nears-end/6270150.html>.
    14 October 2021. Retrieved 14 October 2021.
119. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto7_124-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto7_124-1> "'Lesser evil'? disapproval of presidential candidates
    rises" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?
    ud=20211024000193Website=Koreaherald.com>. 24 October 2021.
    Retrieved 24 October 2021.
120. *^ <#cite_ref-125>* Hyun-su, Yim (21 December 2021). "[Newsmaker]
    Yoon's feminist recruit under attack from all corners" <http://
    www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20211221000905>. /The Korea Herald/.
    Retrieved 17 January 2022.
121. *^ <#cite_ref-126>* Hyun-su, Yim (23 December 2021). "Feminist
    waging vendetta against Lee Jun-seok by joining Yoon's team: friend"
    <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20211223000762>. /The Korea
    Herald/. Retrieved 16 January 2022.
122. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-koreaherald.com_127-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-koreaherald.com_127-1> Jun-tae, Ko (31 December 2021).
    "People Power Party strife peaks to extend into 2022" <http://
    www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20211231000402>. /The Korea Herald/.
    Retrieved 16 January 2022.
123. *^ <#cite_ref-128>* "Feminist Politician Resigns from Yoon's Camp
    amid Internal Discord" <http://world.kbs.co.kr/service/
    news_view.htm?lang=e&Seq_Code=166688>. /World.kbs.co.kr/. Retrieved
    16 January 2022.
124. *^ <#cite_ref-129>* Ji-hye, Shin (19 January 2022). "[Newsmaker]
    Forensic psychologist quits Yoon Suk Yeol campaign over his wife's
    remarks" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20220119000657>. /
    The Korea Herald/.
125. *^ <#cite_ref-130>* "Ahn Cheol-soo comes out on top in hypothetical
    match-up against Lee" <https://english.hani.co.kr/arti/
    english_edition/e_national/1026748.html>. /English.hani.co.kr/.
    Retrieved 16 January 2022.
126. *^ <#cite_ref-131>* "Poll: Lee Jae-myung holds 8-point lead over
    Yoon" <https://english.hani.co.kr/arti/english_edition/e_national/
    1026444.html>. /English.hani.co.kr/. Retrieved 16 January 2022.
127. *^ <#cite_ref-132>* Jun-tae, Ko (5 January 2022). "Swing voters shun
    Yoon Suk-yeol amid controversies" <http://www.koreaherald.com/
    view.php?ud=20220105000663>. /The Korea Herald/. Retrieved 16
    January 2022.
128. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-disbanded_133-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    disbanded_133-1> "[Election 2022] Yoon disbands conflict-riddled
    campaign team" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?
    ud=20220105000746>. /The Korea Herald <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. 5 January 2022.
129. *^ <#cite_ref-:2_134-0>* "Main opposition party bogged down in power
    struggle" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20220104000877>. /
    The Korea Herald <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/.
    4 January 2022.
130. *^ <#cite_ref-135>* "(2nd LD) PPP campaign chief says he's parting
    ways with Yoon" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20220105001752315>. /
    Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Yonhap_News_Agency>/. 5 January 2022.
131. *^ <#cite_ref-136>* "[KH Explains] Democratic Party accused of
    repeating "Druking" scandal in support of Lee" <http://
    www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20220308000642>. /The Korea Herald
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. 8 March 2022.
132. *^ <#cite_ref-137>* He-rim, Jo (6 January 2022). "[Election 2022]
    Main opposition party's internal strife still not done" <http://
    www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20220106000699>. /The Korea Herald/.
    Retrieved 16 January 2022.
133. *^ <#cite_ref-138>* "Lee, Yoon reconcile as PPP drops proposal for
    party chief's ouster" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?
    ud=20220106000960>. /The Korea Herald/. 6 January 2022. Retrieved 16
    January 2022.
134. *^ <#cite_ref-139>* "(LEAD) Minor party presidential nominee halts
    campaign schedule amid low ratings" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20220112009251325>. Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 12 January 2022. Retrieved 16 January 2022.
135. *^ <#cite_ref-140>* "Justice Party campaign leaders resign en masse
    amid candidate's seclusion" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20220113005700315>. Yonhap News Agency <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>. 13 January 2022. Retrieved 16 January 2022.
136. *^ <#cite_ref-141>* "심상정 "기후 위기 심각, 녹색당과 대선 함께 치를
    것"" <https://news.kbs.co.kr/news/view.do?ncd=5375435>. /KBS 뉴스/.
137. *^ <#cite_ref-142>* "'Now is the time to pass anti-discrimination
    law'" <https://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20220207000530>. /The
    Korea Herald <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. 7
    February 2022.
138. *^ <#cite_ref-143>* "2 die in apparent accident in Ahn Cheol-soo's
    campaign bus" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?
    ud=20220215000941>. /The Korea Herald/. 15 February 2022. Retrieved
    9 March 2022.
139. *^ <#cite_ref-144>* "Yoon, Ahn reach tentative agreement to field
    unified candidate" <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/
    AEN20220303000200325>. /Yonhap News Agency <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonhap_News_Agency>/. 3 March 2022.
140. *^ <#cite_ref-145>* "안철수 "尹 뽑으면 1년 후 손 자르고 싶을 것" 정
    청래 "명연설"" <https://www.chosun.com/politics/
    election2022/2022/02/28/SVZMYHQUEZHWNMRXQJDIIJY2OQ/>. /조선일보/. 28
    February 2022.
141. *^ <#cite_ref-146>* "Opposition merger adds to Ahn's career of
    withdrawal" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?
    ud=20220303000732>. /The Korea Herald <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. 3 March 2022.
142. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-attack_147-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    attack_147-1> "송영길, 유세 도중 둔기 피습… 머리 다쳐 응급실 이송"
    <https://www.hankookilbo.com/News/Read/A2022030713010000388?did=NA>.
    7 March 2022. Retrieved 7 March 2022.
143. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-attack1_148-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    attack1_148-1> "[3보] 송영길, 신촌서 선거운동하다 둔기 피습…머리 다
    쳐 응급실로" <https://www.yna.co.kr/view/AKR20220307085651001?
    input=1195m>. 7 March 2022. Retrieved 7 March 2022.
144. *^ <#cite_ref-149>* "송영길, 유세 중 노인 유튜버에 둔기 피습… 여야,
    일제히 규탄" <http://www.segye.com/newsView/20220307515775?
    OutUrl=naver>. 7 March 2022. Retrieved 7 March 2022.
145. *^ <#cite_ref-150>* "진상 파악도 않고… 與 "송영길 피습은 백색 테러""
    <https://www.chosun.com/politics/
    election2022/2022/03/07/7R7YPK7F6BAZPLQAGOMSUHUHCU/>. /The Chosun
    Ilbo/ (in Korean). 7 March 2022. Retrieved 7 March 2022.
146. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-gnp_151-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    gnp_151-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-gnp_151-2> "16년전 朴처럼 송영길, 신촌
    유세 도중 피습…朴 '대전은요' 바람 불까" <https://www.news1.kr/
    articles/?4607733>. 7 March 2022. Retrieved 7 March 2022.
147. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:5_152-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    5_152-1> "South Korea election contenders neck and neck, according
    to exit polls" <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/09/south-
    korea-presidential-election-yoon-suk-yeol-lee-jae-myung>. /the
    Guardian/. 9 March 2022. Retrieved 15 March 2022.
148. *^ <#cite_ref-153>* Shin, Ji-hye (10 March 2022). "Exit polls show
    neck-and-neck presidential race" <http://www.koreaherald.com/
    view.php?ud=20220309000436>. /The Korea Herald/. Retrieved 11 March
    2022.
149. *^ <#cite_ref-154>* "JTBC exit poll projects Lee will garner 48.4
    percent of vote against Yoon's 47.7 percent" <https://en.yna.co.kr/
    view/AEN20220309004300315?section=national/politics>. /Yonhap News
    Agency/. 9 March 2022.
150. *^ <#cite_ref-155>* "출구조사 - 2022 대선 - KBS 뉴스" <https://
    news.kbs.co.kr/special/election2022/president/exit_poll.html>. /
    Korea Broadcasting System <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Korea_Broadcasting_System>/. 9 March 2022. Retrieved 12 March 2022.
151. *^ <#cite_ref-156>* "Decision K+: Yoon Suk Yeol to Become Next
    President" <http://world.kbs.co.kr/service/news_view_sp.htm?
    lang=e&Seq_Code=168155&board_code=118&page=3&board_code=118&kubun=n&special_id=election2022>. /KBS World <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KBS_World>/. 10 March 2022.
152. *^ <#cite_ref-157>* "Lee Jae-myung accepts defeat in close-fought
    presidential election" <http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?
    ud=20220310000068&np=1&mp=1>. /The Korea Herald <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. 10 March 2022.
153. *^ <#cite_ref-158>* "Liberal ruling party candidate Lee Jae-myung
    concedes defeat in South Korea's presidential election" <https://
    abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/liberal-ruling-party-
    candidate-lee-jae-myung-concedes-83344787>. /ABC News <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ABC_News>/. 9 March 2022.
154. *^ <#cite_ref-:0_159-0>* McCurry, Justin (9 March 2022).
    "Conservative candidate squeaks to victory in South Korean election"
    <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/09/yoon-suk-yeol-
    elected-president-south-korea>. /The Guardian <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Guardian>/.
155. *^ <#cite_ref-160>* "South Korean conservative candidate wins close-
    fought, divisive presidential election" <https://
    www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/09/south-korea-presidential-
    election-lee-yoon/>. /The Washington Post <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/The_Washington_Post>/. 9 March 2022.
156. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Al_Jazeera_161-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    Al_Jazeera_161-1> "Yoon Suk-yeol wins South Korea's presidential
    election" <https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/3/9/south-korean-
    opposition-candidate-yoon-wins-presidential-election>. /Al Jazeera
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Jazeera_English>/. 9 March 2022.
157. *^ <#cite_ref-162>* Shin, Mitch. "Yoon Suk-yeol Becomes South
    Korea's President-Elect" <https://thediplomat.com/2022/03/yoon-suk-
    yeol-becomes-south-koreas-president-elect/>. /thediplomat.com/.
    Retrieved 11 March 2022.
158. *^ <#cite_ref-163>* "[Reporter's Notebook] How did the Democratic
    Party lose its power in just five years?" <https://koreaherald.com/
    view.php?ud=20220316000671#;>. /The Korea Herald <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Korea_Herald>/. 16 March 2022.

