  2023 Singaporean presidential election

Contributors to Wikimedia projects
110–139 minut
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2023 Singaporean presidential election
------------------------------------------------------------------------
← 2017 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2017_Singaporean_presidential_election> 	*1 September 2023* 	2029 →

Registered	2,709,455 (Increase 7.66%)^[a] <#cite_note-E11-1>
Turnout	93.41% (Decrease 1.39pp)^[a] <#cite_note-E11-1>
  	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Tharman_Shanmugaratnam_Official_photo_2023.tif> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Portrait_shot_of_Ng_Kok_Song_taken_during_his_Ang_Mo_Kio_walkabout_on_20230826.jpg> 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Tan_Kin_Lian_in_a_suit_and_tie.jpg>
Nominee 	*Tharman Shanmugaratnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tharman_Shanmugaratnam>* 	Ng Kok Song <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ng_Kok_Song> 	Tan Kin Lian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Kin_Lian>
Party 	Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Independent_politician> 	Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Independent_politician> 	Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Independent_politician>
Popular vote 	*1,749,261* 	390,636 	344,584
Percentage 	*70.41%* 	15.72% 	13.87%

------------------------------------------------------------------------
*President before election*

Halimah Yacob <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halimah_Yacob>
Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician>

	*Elected President*

Tharman Shanmugaratnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tharman_Shanmugaratnam>
Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician>

Presidential elections were held in Singapore on 1 September 2023, the
sixth public presidential elections but only the third to be contested
by more than one candidate. Incumbent president Halimah Yacob <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halimah_Yacob>, who had been elected unopposed
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncontested_election> in 2017 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_Singaporean_presidential_election>, did not
seek re-election.

Three candidates ran for the non-partisan <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Non-partisan_democracy> position: Tharman Shanmugaratnam <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tharman_Shanmugaratnam>, Ng Kok Song <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ng_Kok_Song>, and Tan Kin Lian <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Kin_Lian>, who were all independents <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> or had resigned from any
political parties that they had previously been members of. They were
all issued the Certificate of Eligibility <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Certificate_of_Eligibility> (COE), and a community certificate, to
be able to contest in the elections, per the eligibility requirements.

Tharman won a majority of the votes, at 70.41% of the votes and winning
by a record margin. He also became the first non-Chinese candidate to be
directly elected to the presidency.^[1] <#cite_note-TW-PE2023-2> Ng
received 15.72% of the vote and two-time presidential candidate Tan
received 13.87%, the latter having improved his performance over 2011
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2011_Singaporean_presidential_election>
when he'd done so poorly as to lose his election deposit <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Election_deposit>. Tharman was inaugurated on 14
September as the ninth president of Singapore <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/President_of_Singapore>.^[2] <#cite_note-electiondayannoucement-3>


    Background[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=1>]

The president of Singapore is the head of state <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head_of_state> of Singapore, is paid an annual
salary of S$1.54 million, or US$1.1 million, and is subject to periodic
White Paper reviews.^[3] <#cite_note-4> The previous president was
Halimah Yacob <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halimah_Yacob>, who took
office on 14 September 2017. She was the first female president in the
country's history.


      Eligibility[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=2>]

Candidates must satisfy either the public sector or private sector
requirement. Under the public sector requirement, the candidate
automatically qualifies if having held either a designated public office
or the chief executive position of a key statutory board or government
company. Under the private sector requirement, the candidate
automatically qualifies if that person has been the chief executive of a
company with S$500 million shareholders' equity <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equity_(finance)#shareholders'_equity> and net
profitability.^[4] <#cite_note-5> Notwithstanding the aforementioned
automatic tracks, candidates could also be qualified on a deliberative
track where their abilities and experiences have been assessed by the
Presidential Elections Committee (PEC) to be equivalent to either the
public- or private-sector automatic track requirements.^[5] <#cite_note-6>

The presidency is required by the Constitution <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constitution_of_Singapore> to be non-partisan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician>.^[6]
<#cite_note-7> However, many former presidents, as well as former
candidates, had ties with the long-ruling People's Action Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Action_Party> (PAP) prior to
their candidacies. Tharman had served as an MP for the PAP. He was a
cabinet minister from 2015 to 2023, and was once seen as a potential
candidate for prime minister.^[7] <#cite_note-HFK-PE2023-8> ^[1]
<#cite_note-TW-PE2023-2> Tharman was also described by the Reuters
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reuters> news agency as the candidate
closest to the country's establishment.^[8] <#cite_note-9>

Ng had previous work experience with Singapore's sovereign wealth fund
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sovereign_wealth_fund>, the GIC <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIC_(Singaporean_sovereign_wealth_fund)>, as well
as the country's monetary authority <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Monetary_Authority_of_Singapore>. Tan had previous ties with the arm of
the National Trades Union Congress <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Trades_Union_Congress> that is now known as Income Insurance
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Income_Insurance>. Tan's candidacy also
had the support of a number of opposition figures, including SDP
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore_Democratic_Party>'s Tan Jee Say
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Jee_Say> and Lim Tean <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lim_Tean> with the Peoples Voice <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peoples_Voice_(Singapore)> party as proposers, a
mid-race endorsement from former presidential candidate and current PSP
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Progress_Singapore_Party> chairman Tan
Cheng Bock <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Cheng_Bock> (albeit in a
personal capacity), as well as support from SDP's Chee Soon Juan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chee_Soon_Juan> and PPP <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Power_Party_(Singapore)> leader Goh
Meng Seng <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goh_Meng_Seng>.^[9]
<#cite_note-:22-10>

Following amendments to the Constitution, the 2017 presidential election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_Singaporean_presidential_election>
was the first to be reserved for a particular racial community.^[10]
<#cite_note-11> ^[b] <#cite_note-12> It was restricted to candidates
from the minority Malay community <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Malay_Singaporeans>, who had not held the presidency since 1970.^[11]
<#cite_note-straitstimes1-13> ^[12] <#cite_note-:3-14> The 2023
presidential election was open to candidates of any racial community.


      Election procedures[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=3>]

President Halimah Yacob <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halimah_Yacob>'s
term of office was scheduled to end on 13 September 2023. The
presidential election had to be held within three months of that
date.^[13] <#cite_note-:8-15> ^[14] <#cite_note-16> Any Singaporean
citizen who wished to be a candidate in the election had to apply and
receive a Certificate of Eligibility (COE), as well as a community
certificate.^[15] <#cite_note-17>

On 11 August, the writ of election was issued by Prime Minister Lee
Hsien Loong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Hsien_Loong>.^[16]
<#cite_note-18> ^[17] <#cite_note-19> The writ specified Nomination Day
to be held on 22 August 2023 at the People's Association <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Association> (PA) headquarters at 9
King George's Avenue. The Returning Officer <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Returning_Officer#Singapore> for this election was to be Tan Meng
Dui, CEO of the Housing and Development Board <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Housing_and_Development_Board> (HDB), who is serving his second
term, after the 2020 general election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_Singaporean_general_election>.^[18] <#cite_note-:9-20>

By Nomination Day, all prospective candidates had to have prepared their
nomination papers, which included the COE, community certificate, and
political donation certificate. The candidate also had to pay the
election deposit of $40,500, which was lowered from the $43,500 required
for the previous election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2017_Singaporean_presidential_election>. A candidate would lose this
deposit if they did not receive 12.50% of the total votes cast. The
nomination paper must be signed by one's proposer, seconder, and at
least four assenters, and be handed to the Returning Officer between
11:00 to 12:00 SST <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Singapore_Standard_Time> (UTC+08:00 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
UTC%2B08:00>) on Nomination Day.^[19] <#cite_note-21> ^[20]
<#cite_note-:10-22> On that day, the Returning Officer announces the
candidates running for the presidency. However, if only one candidate
was successfully nominated, the election would be declared a walkover
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walkover>, and the sole nominated
candidate would be the President-elect. Otherwise, Polling Day was set
for 1 September.^[13] <#cite_note-:8-15>

In-person rallies were discouraged by the Elections Department, which
did not designate any rally sites, as such rallies may be divisive and
thus not congruent with the nature of the unifying nature of the
presidential system. Candidate speeches were televised on local
television channels instead, while smaller election meetings were
allowed to be held, albeit indoors or otherwise under cover, for
security reasons.^[21] <#cite_note-23> Campaigning took place between 22
and 30 August. This was followed by a cooling-off <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Election_silence> day, on 31 August, on the eve of
Polling Day, when campaigning was prohibited, to allow time for voters
to reflect on events before casting their votes.^[22] <#cite_note-24>
^[2] <#cite_note-electiondayannoucement-3>

A candidate required a plurality of the vote to be elected.


      Local voting[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=4>]

Polling Day was 1 September 2023, between 08:00 and 20:00; the winner of
the election was determined by first-past-the-post voting <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-past-the-post_voting> (FPTP) and was
inaugurated on 14 September. The election would potentially see
2,709,455 eligible voters cast their votes, up from 2,653,942 from the
most recent general election in 2020, and 2,274,773 from the last
contested presidential election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2011_Singaporean_presidential_election> in 2011.^[23] <#cite_note-
ELJV1-25> ^[24] <#cite_note-26> The Elections Department of Singapore
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elections_Department_Singapore> (ELD)
increased the number of polling stations from 1,097 to 1,264, reducing
the number of voters allocated to each station from an average of 2,400
to 2,150, compared to the last election.^[25] <#cite_note-:17-27> The
ELD had also assigned more civil servants, increasing them from 30,000
to 36,000.^[25] <#cite_note-:17-27> The 'X' pen used in the 2020 general
election was also replaced with an 'X' stamp, to eliminate the confusion
of voters who in the previous election had mistaken the pen for writing
rather than for marking.^[25] <#cite_note-:17-27> After the polls
closed, ballot boxes were sealed and transported to one of 215 counting
stations.^[26] <#cite_note-28>

On 24 August, ELD issued an apology to 9,822 voters from Tanjong Pagar
GRC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanjong_Pagar_GRC>—all of whom had
been assigned to vote at either St Margaret's School, Tanglin Community
Centre <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tanglin_Community_Club>, Farrer
Park Primary School, or Delta Sports Hall <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Delta_Sports_Complex>—for a printing mishap whereby duplicate poll
cards with different serial numbers had been mistakenly printed and sent
to voters.^[27] <#cite_note-29> ELD also announced that about 200 voters
would be excluded from the voting list, citing scanning issues on some
NRIC cards <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Registration_Identity_Card> during the 2020 general election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_Singaporean_general_election>, that
number later being increased to 1,093,^[28] <#cite_note-30> and that
32,807 non-voters had since been reinstated onto the voter list when
restorations began on 5 October 2020;^[29] <#cite_note-31> ^[30]
<#cite_note-32>

With the amendments to a bill of 8 March 2023, mobile polling stations
were, for the first time, set up at 31 selected nursing homes to cater
to the elderly. This was in response to an ageing electorate and travel
restrictions, especially with regard to the COVID-19 pandemic <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic_in_Singapore> occurring at the
time of the 2020 elections, according to Education Minister <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ministry_of_Education_(Singapore)> and Minister-
in-charge of the Public Service Chan Chun Sing <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chan_Chun_Sing>.^[31] <#cite_note-Bill-33> ^[32]
<#cite_note-34> For this election, there would be 4,807 nursing home
residents voting at these stations.^[33] <#cite_note-35>

During the opening hours of Polling Day, there were technical issues
with the e-registration system, leading to a buildup of queues at the
various polling stations. The technical issues were resolved.^[34]
<#cite_note-TodayOnline20230901-36> When Parliament convened on 18
September, Chan addressed these issues to ensure a prevention of similar
incidents in the future.^[35] <#cite_note-37>

Under constitutionally-required compulsory voting <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compulsory_voting>, non-voters <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstention> would be delisted from the Registers
of Electors and, for the first time ever, were notified of such via mail
and the SingPass app.^[36] <#cite_note-38> The list of non-voters was
complied and published on 9 November,^[37] <#cite_note-39> with
inspections and registrations for reinstating starting the day
after.^[38] <#cite_note-40>


      Overseas voting[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=5>]

In 2023, an amendment to the Presidential Elections Act and
Parliamentary Elections Act was tabled in Parliament; it enabled
Singaporeans living abroad to vote by post <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Postal_voting> in subsequent elections, giving them an additional
option.^[39] <#cite_note-41> This was the first election whereby
Singaporean citizens abroad could exercise their voting rights by post
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Right_of_expatriates_to_vote_in_their_country_of_origin#Singapore>.
Prior to 2023, they may only vote in person at one of ten designated
overseas polling stations, located in various places such as Australia
(Canberra), China (three polling stations: Beijing, Hong Kong and
Shanghai), Japan (Tokyo), the United Arab Emirates (Dubai), the United
Kingdom (London), and the United States (three polling stations: New
York City, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C.).^[40] <#cite_note-42>
Expatriate citizens were also assigned a polling station in Singapore,
where they could vote in person if they happened to be in Singapore on
polling day.^[41] <#cite_note-43>

On 23 August, ELD confirmed that 6,649 voters had been registered as
overseas voters, with 3,432 doing postal voting and the rest being
assigned to their respective overseas polling stations.^[42]
<#cite_note-ELJV2-44> During Polling Day, ELD advised overseas voters in
Hong Kong to follow the latest safety updates about the approaching
Typhoon Saola <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2023_Pacific_typhoon_season#Typhoon_Saola_(Goring)> before heading
outdoors to vote, but its voting station opened as usual.^[43]
<#cite_note-45> ^[44] <#cite_note-46> In Japan, another country with an
overseas polling station, had reported its highest average temperature
during the voting hours, amidst the ongoing heat wave <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Asia_heat_wave>.^[45] <#cite_note-47>


    Candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=6>]

The Elections Department <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Elections_Department_Singapore> (ELD) announced that there were 6
Certificate of Eligibility applications, three of which (two Chinese and
one Indian/other minority) were accepted.^[46] <#cite_note-48> ELD also
announced that there were 16 Community Certificate applications, six of
which (five Chinese and one Indian/other minority) were accepted.^[47]
<#cite_note-49>


      Eligible[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=7>]

Candidates 	Background 	Application result
*Tharman Shanmugaratnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tharman_Shanmugaratnam>* 	Tharman has served as Senior Minister,
Coordinating Minister for Social Policies <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Coordinating_Minister_for_Social_Policies>, chairman of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Monetary_Authority_of_Singapore>, deputy chairman of GIC <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIC_(Singaporean_sovereign_wealth_fund)>, chairman
of the International Advisory Council of the Economic Development Board
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_Development_Board>, and from
2001 to 2023 a member of parliament for Jurong GRC <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jurong_GRC>'s Taman Jurong division. On 8 June,
Tharman announced that, to run for the presidency, he would resign from
all his positions in the government <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Government_of_Singapore> and as a member of the governing People's
Action Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Action_Party>
(PAP) on 7 July.^[48] <#cite_note-:13-50> On 26 July, at a press
conference at the York Hotel, Tharman launched his campaign and
announced his team of assenters.^[49] <#cite_note-rfa-51> On 7 August,
he submitted his application for a certificate of eligibility to the
Elections Department <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Elections_Department>.^[50] <#cite_note-52> 	Application for Certificate
of Eligibility accepted.^[51] <#cite_note-:12-53>
*Ng Kok Song <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ng_Kok_Song>* 	Ng is the
founding partner and chairman of Avanda Investment Management and former
GIC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
GIC_(Singaporean_sovereign_wealth_fund)> chief investment officer.^[52]
<#cite_note-54> He is serving on the advisory board of PIMCO <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PIMCO>, has served on the governing board of Lee
Kuan Yew School of Public Policy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Lee_Kuan_Yew_School_of_Public_Policy>,^[53] <#cite_note-55> and was the
founding chairman of the Singapore International Monetary Exchange
(SIMEX), which was later merged to form the Singapore Exchange (SGX)
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Singapore_International_Monetary_Exchange>.^[54] <#cite_note-56> On 19
July, he collected his application forms and announced his bid to run
for the presidency.^[55] <#cite_note-:6-57> On 2 August, Ng submitted
his application for a certificate of eligibility to the Elections
Department <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elections_Department> and
announced that George Yeo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Yeo>
would be one of his character references.^[56] <#cite_note-58> At the
time of nomination, Ng was the only candidate without any record of
participating in any political party, and the third overall presidential
candidate to be so unaffiliated, after Chua Kim Yeow and S.R. Nathan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S.R._Nathan>.
*Tan Kin Lian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Kin_Lian>* 	Tan is a
former CEO of NTUC Income <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Income_Insurance> (1997–2007) and former branch secretary at Marine
Parade GRC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Marine_Parade_Group_Representation_Constituency> of the governing
People's Action Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Action_Party> (PAP) for three years. He eventually left the
PAP in 2008 after three decades of membership, due to his inactivity and
disagreements with the party's values. Tan contested the 2011
presidential election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2011_Singaporean_presidential_election> but finished last by a large
margin in a four-cornered contest and consequently forfeited his
electoral deposit. On 31 July, Tan announced that he had submitted his
application for a certificate of eligibility to the Elections Department
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elections_Department> (ELD) on 11 July.
He added that he would wait for the Presidential Elections Committee
(PEC) to announce the final slate of approved candidates before deciding
whether to submit his nomination paper.^[57] <#cite_note-:14-59> On 11
August, Tan launched his campaign, with Tan Jee Say <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Jee_Say> and Lim Tean <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lim_Tean> on his team of assenters.^[58]
<#cite_note-60> On 17 August, Tan announced he would not submit his
nomination forms if all four prospective candidates were eligible to run
for the election, and that it was his plan the whole time.^[59]
<#cite_note-61>


      Declared ineligible[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=8>]

Candidates 	Background 	Application result
*George Goh Ching Wah <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
George_Goh_Ching_Wah>* 	On 12 June, Goh, the co-founder of Harvey Norman
Ossia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvey_Norman#International>,
confirmed that he would be running for president.^[60] <#cite_note-:
1-62> He had previously been the non-resident Ambassador to Morocco, and
is also the co-founder of the charity Border Mission. According to Goh,
all the companies he owns or runs have a collective market
capitalisation value of S$3.15 billion.^[61] <#cite_note-63> On 4
August, Goh submitted his application for a certificate of eligibility
to the Elections Department <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Elections_Department>.^[62] <#cite_note-64> Goh's application was
unsuccessful, and he was not certified.^[51] <#cite_note-:12-53> Goh
later said he did not accept the committee's reason for denying him the
certificate, saying they took a narrow view of his capabilities. In a
letter made public, the committee said that the five companies were
considered on their individual merits and could not be aggregated, thus
not meeting the S$500 million shareholder equity requirement.^[63]
<#cite_note-65> 	Application for Certificate of Eligibility
rejected.^[51] <#cite_note-:12-53>


      Publicly expressed interest[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=9>]

  * *Lee Hsien Yang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Hsien_Yang>* –
    Lee spent most of his career in the private sector, including being
    the CEO of Singtel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singtel> and
    Chairman of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_Aviation_Authority_of_Singapore> (CAAS).
    A prominent member of the Lee family <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Lee_family_(Singapore)>, he is the youngest son of founding Prime
    Minister Lee Kuan Yew <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Kuan_Yew>
    and brother of current Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Hsien_Loong>. Lee is estranged from his
    brother over the 38 Oxley Road <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    38_Oxley_Road> dispute and had previously endorsed the Progress
    Singapore Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Progress_Singapore_Party> in the 2020 Singaporean general election
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_Singaporean_general_election>.
    During a telephone interview with Bloomberg <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloomberg_L.P.> in March 2023, Lee said,
    "There is a view that depending on who they [the People's Action
    Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Action_Party>]
    float, if I were to run they would be in serious trouble and could
    lose. A lot of people have come to me. They really want me to run.
    It's something I would consider." As of March 2023, both Lee and his
    wife, Lee Suet Fern, were in self-imposed exile <https://
    en.wiktionary.org/wiki/self-exile> in the United Kingdom after being
    under investigation for lying during judicial proceedings. Lee did
    not collect his application forms from the Elections Department
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elections_Department>.^[64]
    <#cite_note-66> ^[65] <#cite_note-67>
  * *Seng Soon Kia* – Seng is a 72-year-old former woodworking teacher
    who collected his application forms at the Elections Department
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elections_Department_Singapore>
    office on 13 June 2023. In an interview conducted by the media
    following the collection of his application forms, he claimed to
    have fulfilled the requirements to run as president.^[66]
    <#cite_note-:2-68>
  * *Turritopsis Dohrnii Teo En Ming* – Teo is a 45-year-old information
    technology consultant <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Information_technology_consulting> who collected his application
    forms at the Elections Department <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Elections_Department_Singapore> office on 27 June 2023; he announced
    his presidential bid on TikTok <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    TikTok>.^[67] <#cite_note-:5-69> He expressed his admiration for Sun
    Yat-sen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_Yat-sen> and Ong Teng
    Cheong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ong_Teng_Cheong>, the fifth
    President of Singapore, and stated that he wished to be a "President
    for all" like them.^[68] <#cite_note-70> 


      Declined to be candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=10>]

  * *Halimah Yacob <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halimah_Yacob>* – the
    eighth, and incumbent, president of Singapore <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Singapore>, announced on 29 May
    2023 that she would not be seeking re-election after "careful
    consideration".^[69] <#cite_note-:4-71>
  * *George Yeo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Yeo>* – Minister
    for Foreign Affairs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Ministry_of_Foreign_Affairs_(Singapore)> from 2004 to 2011 and
    Member of Parliament for Aljunied GRC <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Aljunied_Group_Representation_Constituency> from 1988 to 2004,
    ruled out a run for president after his defeat for a seat from
    Aljunied GRC during the 2011 general election <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2011_Singapore_general_election>.^[70]
    <#cite_note-yeo1-72> ^[71] <#cite_note-73> In 2022, he confirmed he
    would not run in the 2023 presidential election.^[72] <#cite_note-:
    0-74> 


    Endorsements[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=11>]

The candidates received the following endorsements:


      Tharman Shanmugaratnam[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=12>]

  * Kishore Mahbubani <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kishore_Mahbubani>,
    diplomat, former Singapore Permanent Representative to the United
    Nations <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Permanent_Representative_to_the_United_Nations>^[73] <#cite_note-75>
  * Lee Hsien Loong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Hsien_Loong>,
    Prime Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Prime_minister_of_Singapore> of Singapore and Secretary-General of
    the People's Action Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    People%27s_Action_Party> (PAP)^[c] <#cite_note-77>
  * Tommy Koh <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tommy_Koh>, diplomat,
    Singapore ambassador-at-large and former Permanent Representative to
    the United Nations^[75] <#cite_note-78> 


      Ng Kok Song[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=13>]

  * George Yeo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Yeo>, former
    cabinet minister and former chief of staff of the Republic of
    Singapore Air Force <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Republic_of_Singapore_Air_Force> (RSAF)^[76] <#cite_note-79> 


      Tan Kin Lian[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=14>]

  * Chee Soon Juan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chee_Soon_Juan>,
    perennial political candidate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Perennial_candidate> and secretary general of the Singapore
    Democratic Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Singapore_Democratic_Party> (SDP)^[d] <#cite_note-81>
  * Goh Meng Seng <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goh_Meng_Seng>, founder
    and secretary general of the People's Power Party <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Power_Party_(Singapore)> (PPP)^[9]
    <#cite_note-:22-10>
  * Iris Koh <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_Koh>, anti-vaccination
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-vaccination> activist^[78]
    <#cite_note-82>
  * Lim Tean <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lim_Tean>, founder and
    secretary general of the Peoples Voice <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Peoples_Voice_(Singapore)> (PV)^[79] <#cite_note-83>
  * Tan Cheng Bock <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Cheng_Bock>,
    former presidential candidate in 2011 <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/2011_Singaporean_presidential_election> and founder of the
    Progress Singapore Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Progress_Singapore_Party> (PSP)^[80] <#cite_note-DuoEndorse-84>
  * Tan Jee Say <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Jee_Say>, former
    presidential candidate, in 2011 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2011_Singaporean_presidential_election>, and former secretary
    general of the now-defunct Singaporeans First <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singaporeans_First> (SingFirst) party^[80]
    <#cite_note-DuoEndorse-84> 


    Timeline[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=15>]


      Table of singificant events[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=16>]

All dates are according to Singapore Standard Time <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore_Standard_Time> (SST), which is UTC+08:00
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTC%2B08:00>.

Date 	Event
May 2023
29 May 	Incumbent President Halimah Yacob <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Halimah_Yacob> announces that she will not run for re-election in
2023. 	^[69] <#cite_note-:4-71>
June 2023
8 June 	Senior Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tharman_Shanmugaratnam> puts himself forward as a
presidential candidate, and announces that he will step down from all
political positions on 7 July. 	^[48] <#cite_note-:13-50>
12 June 	Harvey Norman Ossia chairman George Goh <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Goh_Ching_Wah> declares his intention to
run for the presidency. 	^[60] <#cite_note-:1-62>
13 June 	Applications for certificates of eligibility (COE) and
community certificates were made available. Two potential candidates,
George Goh and Seng Soon Kia, collect their application forms at the
Elections Department <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Elections_Department_Singapore>. 	^[81] <#cite_note-85> ^[66]
<#cite_note-:2-68>
27 June 	Teo En Ming collects his application forms at the Elections
Department. 	^[67] <#cite_note-:5-69>
July 2023
19 July 	Ng Kok Song <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ng_Kok_Song>
collects his application forms at the Elections Department. 	^[55]
<#cite_note-:6-57>
26 July 	Tharman Shanmugaratnam launches his presidential campaign,
titled "Respect for All". 	^[49] <#cite_note-rfa-51>
30 July 	Tan Kin Lian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Kin_Lian>
reveals that he has submitted his application forms for the Certificate
of Eligibility. 	^[57] <#cite_note-:14-59>
August 2023
2 August 	Ng Kok Song submits application forms for the Certificate of
Eligibility. 	^[82] <#cite_note-86>
4 August 	George Goh submits application forms for the Certificate of
Eligibility. He also launched his presidential campaign that afternoon.
	^[83] <#cite_note-87>
7 August 	Tharman Shanmugaratnam submits application forms for the
Certificate of Eligibility. 	^[84] <#cite_note-88>
11 August 	Tan Kin Lian announces his official bid for the presidency,
his second attempt since the 2011 election. 	^[85] <#cite_note-89>
*Issuance of Writ of Election*, adjourning Nomination Day and Polling
Day on 22 August and 1 September, respectively. 	^[2] <#cite_note-
electiondayannoucement-3> ^[86] <#cite_note-:7-90>
17 August 	Deadline for applications for the Certificate of Eligibility
and Community Certificate. 	^[86] <#cite_note-:7-90>
18 August 	Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Ng Kok Song, and Tan Kin Lian were
issued certificates of eligibility. ELD also announced that 10 out of
the 16 community declarations and three applications for COE, most
notably of George Goh, were rejected. 	^[87] <#cite_note-:15-91>
22 August 	*Nomination Day* (see below <#Nomination_Day>)
All three eligible candidates (Ng Kok Song, Tharman Shanmugaratnam, and
Tan Kin Lian) were nominated and a notice of contested election was
issued. 	^[88] <#cite_note-:11-92> ^[89] <#cite_note-93>
22 to 30 August 	*Campaigning period* (see below <#Campaigning_period>) 	
31 August 	*Cooling-off <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Election_silence>
Day* 	^[90] <#cite_note-94>
September 2023
1 September 	*Polling Day* (see below <#Results>) 	
2 September 	At 00:23, Returning Officer Tan Meng Dui announced outcome
of election. (see below <#Results>) 	^[91] <#cite_note-95>
12 September 	Overseas vote counting 	^[92] <#cite_note-Overseas-96>
13 September 	Halimah Yacob's term of office expires. 	
14 September 	Inauguration day (see below <#Inauguration>) 	


      Candidate participation timeline[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=17>]

Timelines of candidate announcements and, if applicable, withdrawals are
as follows:

Status
	Successfully nominated
	Running
	Expressed interest, yet to run
	Withdrawn/Did not qualify
Events
	Writ of Election issued
	Deadline for Certificate of Eligibility
	Nomination Day
	Presidential Candidate Broadcast 1
	CNA Presidential Forum
	Presidential Candidate Broadcast 2
	Polling Day
	Inauguration Day


    Selection of candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=18>]

On 18 August, the Elections Department <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Elections_Department_Singapore> (ELD) announced the results of the
applications for the Certificate of Eligibility (COE) and Community
Certificate, one day after the applications for both certificates
closed, on 17 August. Three potential candidates were issued both the
COE and community declaration:^[93] <#cite_note-criteria-97> ^[94]
<#cite_note-:03-98>

  * Ng Kok Song <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ng_Kok_Song>: due to the
    prior experience and ability comparable to someone who served as a
    chief executive officer-equivalent role of a government-based
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_of_Singapore> company for
    at least three years.^[87] <#cite_note-:15-91> In Ng's case, he was
    the Chief investment officer <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Chief_investment_officer> of the GIC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    GIC_(Singaporean_sovereign_wealth_fund)> between 2007 and 2013.^[94]
    <#cite_note-:03-98> ^[95] <#cite_note-99>
  * Tharman Shanmugaratnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Tharman_Shanmugaratnam>: due to serving as a cabinet minister for at
    least 3 years. Tharman served 20 years as a cabinet minister between
    2003 and 2023, including as a Chairman of Monetary Authority of
    Singapore <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Monetary_Authority_of_Singapore> between 2011 and 2023.^[96]
    <#cite_note-100>
  * Tan Kin Lian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Kin_Lian>: due to
    the prior experience and ability comparable to someone who served as
    a chief executive officer-equivalent role of a typical company with
    at least $500 million in shareholder equity. In Tan's case, he
    served as a chief executive officer of NTUC Income Insurance
    Cooperative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Income_Insurance> between
    1997 and 2007 for around 10 years and accumulated a shareholder's
    equity of over $1.4 billion during his tenure.^[87] <#cite_note-:15-91> 

All three candidates had been characterized by ELD as having "integrity,
good character and reputation"; both Ng and Tharman had satisfied the
public-sector requirements, while Tan had fulfilled the private-sector
requirements.^[93] <#cite_note-criteria-97>


    Nomination Day[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=19>]

Nomination Day was held on 22 August 2023 at the People's Association
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Association> headquarters at 9
King George's Avenue.^[18] <#cite_note-:9-20> ^[20] <#cite_note-:10-22>
The three candidates that were awarded the Certificate of Eligibility—Ng
Kok Song <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ng_Kok_Song>, Tharman
Shanmugaratnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tharman_Shanmugaratnam>
and Tan Kin Lian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Kin_Lian>—were
nominated.^[88] <#cite_note-:11-92> ^[51] <#cite_note-:12-53>


      Candidates' symbols and slogans[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=20>]

Following the nominations, the three candidates unveiled their symbols
and their slogans, as follows:^[97] <#cite_note-101>

Candidate 	Description of symbol 	Slogan
Ng Kok Song 	Hand with a heart shape at its palm 	United for our future
Tharman Shanmugaratnam 	Pineapple <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Pineapple> 	Respect for all
Tan Kin Lian 	Four person living in harmony, holding a flower 	Bring
back trust, give us hope

According to an interview during his campaign, Tharman also considered a
durian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durian> as his alternate symbol,
but eventually went with a pineapple, as it represents prosperity, and
also referenced his prior ministerial roles.^[98] <#cite_note-ELS-102>


      Team of Assenters[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=21>]

*Candidates* 	*Ng Kok Song*^[99] <#cite_note-103> 	*Tan Kin Lian*^[100]
<#cite_note-104> 	*Tharman Shanmugaratnam*^[101] <#cite_note-105>
*Assenter* 	*Name* 	*Profession* 	*Name* 	*Profession* 	*Name* 	
*Profession*
*Proposer* 	Quah Wee Ghee 	Co-founder of Avanda Investment Management
and ex-presidents of GIC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
GIC_(Singaporean_sovereign_wealth_fund)> public market 	Tan Jee Say
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Jee_Say> 	Ex-principal private
secretary, founder of ex-Singaporeans First <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Singaporeans_First> party and nominated candidate in 2011 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2011_Singaporean_presidential_election> 	Thomas
Chua Kee Seng 	President of Singapore Federation of Chinese Clan
Associations, honorary president of Singapore Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, board chairman of Techwah and ex-NMP <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nominated_Member_of_Parliament>
*Seconder* 	Carol Tan 	Geriatrician at Good Life Medical Centre 	Lim
Tean <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lim_Tean> 	Founder of People's Voice
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peoples_Voice_(Singapore)> party 	
Mohammad Alami Musa 	Head of studies of inter-religious relations at NTU
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nanyang_Technological_University>,
ambassador to Algeria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algeria> and ex-
president of MUIS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Majlis_Ugama_Islam_Singapura>
*Assenter 1* 	Ameerali Abdeali 	Justice of the Peace, director of GetIT
Communications, and CEO of Team6Safety Training & Consultancy 	Leong Sze
Hian 	Honorary chairman of Singapore Professional Centre and acting
managing director of The Online Citizen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Online_Citizen> 	Mary Liew 	President of NTUC <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Trades_Union_Congress> and ex-NMP
*Assenter 2* 	Ho Tian Yee 	Chairman of Fullerton Fund Management, Mount
Alvernia Hospital <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mount_Alvernia_Hospital>, FFMC Holdings, deputy chairman of Pavilion
Capital and director of Seviora Holdings 	Yeo Gim Beng 	Business owner
and director 	Lim Siong Guan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Lim_Siong_Guan> 	Group president of GIC and ex-chairman of IRAS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inland_Revenue_Authority_of_Singapore>,
ACRA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Accounting_and_Corporate_Regulatory_Authority>, EDB <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_Development_Board>, and CPF <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Provident_Fund>
*Assenter 3* 	Chua Cher Choon 	Ex-chairman of the Montfort School
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montfort_Secondary_School> managing
committee and ex-career banker 	Manmeet Singh s/o Bahadar Singh 	Food
delivery driver 	Ho Kwon Ping <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ho_Kwon_Ping> 	Founder/executive chairman of Banyan Tree Holdings
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banyan_Tree_Holdings>, executive director
of Laguna Resorts & Hotels and Thai Wah
*Assenter 4* 	Mohamed Salleh Marican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mohamed_Salleh_Marican> 	CEO of Second Chance and 2017 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_Singaporean_presidential_election> aspirant 	
Vigneswari d/o V Ramachan-dran 	Pre-school teacher 	Kamisinah Sadar 	
General manager of Tasek Jurong and ex-executive director of Pertapis
*Assenter 5* 	Margaret Chan 	Philanthropist and governor emeritus of
Lien Foundation 	Vincent Tan Hun Cheong 	Sales and business development
executive 	Veera Sekaran 	Professor of Biological Sciences at NUS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_University_of_Singapore>
*Assenter 6* 	Abdul Hamid Abdullah 	Founding member of Assoc of Muslim
Professionals <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMP_Singapore>, Casa Raudha
Women Home and ex-audit director of Auditor-General's Office 	Chiu Shin
Kong 	Self employed 	Hassan Ahmad 	Humanitarian, special advisor to
Humanity Matters and ex-CEO of Mercy Relief <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Mercy_Relief>
*Assenter 7* 	Tjio Hans 	CJ Koh distinguished professor of law at NUS,
ex-director of Centre for Banking & Finance Law and Centre for
Commercial Law Studies 	Chen Jun Hao 	Undergraduate law student,
business owner and freelancer 	Kim Whye Kee 	Business owner of Qi
Pottery, co-founder of Beacon of Life and ex-prison inmate
*Assenter 8* 	Angelene Chan 	Chairman of DP Architects <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DP_Architects> 	Khuan Jia Hui 	Patient clinic
associate 	Royston Tan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royston_Tan> 	
Independent film-maker


    Campaigning period[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=22>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Holland_Road,_2023-08-26.jpg>

Campaign posters of Tharman Shanmugaratnam and Tan Kin Lian on a light
pole along Holland Road <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Holland_Road,_Singapore>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Ng_Kok_Song_walkabout_at_Ang_Mo_Kio_20230826_-_RSKY_60.jpg>

Ng Kok Song abstained from putting up such posters, citing limited
resources and sustainability issues and instead relying on social media
and walkabouts

Under amendments to bills of 8 March, minors under the age of 16
(previously applied to students studying in primary or secondary
schools) and foreign entities (such as companies or organisations) are
barred from any political involvement to prevent exploitation, though
they can still participate in election-related activities such as
attending rallies. Foreign individuals remained barred from involvement
under previous laws.^[31] <#cite_note-Bill-33> The election expenditure
limit is capped at either S$600,000 or 30 cents per registered voter,
whichever amount is greater. The latter amount was announced on 12
August to be S$812,822.10, higher than the minimum of S$600,000.
Candidates must declare their election expenses within 31 days after
Polling Day.^[102] <#cite_note-106> ^[103] <#cite_note-107>


      22–25 August[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=23>]

The candidates gave acceptance speeches on Nomination Day.^[104]
<#cite_note-108> Ng Kok Song was the first to deliver his speech. He
stated that he had never been part of a political party before, and
vowed that, if elected, he would protect "three treasures": past
reserves, public services, and social stability.^[105] <#cite_note-109>
Tharman Shanmugaratnam was the second to speak, pledging to have a
"fair, dignified and honourable contest", and promised a campaign that
"unites Singaporeans and not divide us".^[106] <#cite_note-110> Tan Kin
Lian was the last to give his speech, and emphasised the need to vote
for a president "truly independent" of the government.^[107]
<#cite_note-111> Tan also claimed that he was the target of a "smear
campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smear_campaign>" before the
nomination, with regard to his social media posts.^[108]
<#cite_note-112> However, he later did apologise to those who felt
"uncomfortable" with his posts.^[109] <#cite_note-113>

Campaign posters were placed immediately following the nominations, with
Tharman's posters being put up first, followed by Tan's shortly after.
Only Ng abstained from doing so, citing "limited resources" and
environmental concerns – instead, he announced that he would rely on
social media to spread his campaign message.^[110] <#cite_note-114>

Ng began his campaigning by visiting his former residence at Kangkar
(now Sengkang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sengkang> and located in
Upper Serangoon) where he bowed down and kissed the ground,^[111]
<#cite_note-115> referencing his childhood and proving that young
Singaporeans can be successful regardless of background.^[112]
<#cite_note-116> Ng also visited several sites at Hougang <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hougang>—such as the Church of the Nativity of the
Blessed Virgin Mary <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Church_of_the_Nativity_of_the_Blessed_Virgin_Mary,_Singapore>, Montfort
School <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Montfort_Secondary_School>, and
Kangkar Mall—to distribute pamphlets. On the second day, Ng warned the
media that the relationship between the president and the prime minister
should not be "too close", as it would then be difficult for the
president to discharge their duties objectively. He added that he would
schedule an online rally.^[113] <#cite_note-117>

On 25 August, Tharman hosted an indoor rally at 24OWLS, which is located
within Pasir Panjang Power Station.^[114] <#cite_note-118>


      25–30 August[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=24>]

On the night of 27 August, Tan Kin Lian cancelled the remainder of his
walkabouts and interviews, without giving a reason for doing so.^[115]
<#cite_note-119> On 28 August, several opposition candidates and
political analysts began to query Tan's being an "independent candidate"
after seeing that he had received support from Tan Cheng Bock <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Cheng_Bock> and Tan Jee Say <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Jee_Say> on several media outlets, along with
a sticker <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sticker> containing a memetic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_meme> tagline "One Vote, Three
presidents?".^[116] <#cite_note-120> The sticker was removed as of 30
August, due to its being a violation of the campaigning guidelines under
the Presidential Election Act 1991, according to ELD and Tan's team,
whose principal election agent, Prabu Ramachandran, verified that the
sticker was created anonymously and without authorization; unauthorized
publication of physical advertising is an offence under the act.^[117]
<#cite_note-121>

On 28 August, in light of Tan Cheng Bock's endorsement of Tan, Ng Kok
Song questioned Tan's political independence. Ng stated that it was
questionable for Tan to claim to be an independent candidate when he has
been dependent on opposition party leaders, additionally accusing Tan of
"making a mockery of the presidency" and that "political parties should
wait for the next general election to make their point instead of
confusing voters into thinking that this is a general election".^[118]
<#cite_note-122> Ng also concluded that such blatant political
endorsements of Tan polarise voters by politicising the presidential
election and that by doing so have "dishonoured the office of the
President as a unifying non-partisan position."^[119] <#cite_note-123>

On 29 August, the Progress Singapore Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Progress_Singapore_Party> (PSP) responded that they had "denied any
claims" and insisted that they would "neither endorse nor support any
candidates" even when party volunteers received an email to register as
counting agents for Tan,^[120] <#cite_note-124> whose endorsements can
negatively influence the party, according to their central executive
committee (CEC) members.^[121] <#cite_note-125> On the same day, Ng
reiterated the meaning of non-partisan to the media during his walkabout
at Marine Parade <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marine_Parade>, that
Singaporeans do not want a president "who's manipulated by either the
governing party or by the opposition parties", in their response to
Tan's endorsements.^[122] <#cite_note-126> Tharman Shanmugaratnam
responded on media during a walkabout at Sengkang that he found it
"absurd" and concerning that his rivals are "increasingly sweeping
statements" pertaining to being non-partisan, to which Ng replied that
he was "misquoted". Tharman urged the voters to take this seriously and
felt "very unfortunate" when voters spoil their votes in response to
politicisation.^[123] <#cite_note-127>

Later that evening, a police report was lodged against a man on a
bicycle who disrupted and heckled Ng and his team while Ng conducted his
walkabout at Clementi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Clementi,_Singapore>. The man had attempted to ram people with his
bicycle, launched into an expletive-laden rant, and then repeatedly
shouted Tan's name before he left the scene. Nobody was hurt during the
incident, and Ng encouraged people to "behave in a respectful
manner".^[124] <#cite_note-128> The man surrendered himself to the
police the next day, claiming that he had posed a danger to himself with
intentions to self-harm <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-harm>. He
was sent to the Institute of Mental Health <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Institute_of_Mental_Health_(Singapore)> (IMH). Subsequently,
security for Ng and his team was enhanced, while the video went
viral.^[125] <#cite_note-129> Elsewhere, Tan's seconder Lim Tean
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lim_Tean> adjourned his court trial on
charges of acting as an advocate or solicitor in an unauthorized manner
in 2021, which was initially scheduled for 29 August, after he dismissed
his lawyer citing "fundamental disagreements", and to avoid conflicts
with the election. District Judge Ong Hian Sun told Lim to find a new
lawyer by the next day or represent himself in the trial.^[126]
<#cite_note-130> ^[127] <#cite_note-131> On the same day, activist and
lawyer M Ravi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M_Ravi> filed a separate
lawsuit with the Supreme Court <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Supreme_Court_of_Singapore>, in an attempt to disqualify Tharman from
the candidacy, citing a breach in the constitution's Article 19 due to
Tharman's conviction under the Official Secrets Act <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Official_Secrets_Act#Singapore>.^[128]
<#cite_note-132> Ravi revealed the following day that the Court
dismissed the application and ordered Ravi to pay costs of
S$6,000.^[129] <#cite_note-133>

On 30 August, the leading opposition party, the Workers' Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Workers%27_Party_(Singapore)> (WP), reiterated its
objection to the elected presidency in favour of a return to a
ceremonial presidency – where the president is appointed by Parliament –
and stated that it would not endorse any candidate in the presidential
election.^[130] <#cite_note-134> The party added that the qualifying
criteria for presidential candidates is "skewed towards People's Action
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Action_Party> (PAP)–
approved candidates", and the "elected presidency in its current form
undermines parliamentary democracy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Parliamentary_democracy>".^[131] <#cite_note-135> Meanwhile, screenshots
depicting the Reserves & Investment (R&I) Directorate list of employees
showing Akilan Shanmugaratnam, the son of Tharman, working as a Finance
Ministry officer since June 2022, went viral on social media. In
response to the possibility of a conflict of interest <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conflict_of_interest>, if Tharman wins the
presidency, the Ministry of Finance <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ministry_of_Finance_(Singapore)> and Public Service Commission <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_Service_Commission_(Singapore)> Secretariat
simultaneously commented that there was "no conflict of interest between
Tharman's candidacy in the presidential elections and his son Akilan",
and that their decision to rotate his post back in July was to "preempt
any possible such conflicts".^[132] <#cite_note-136>

The candidates wrapped up their campaigns^[133] <#cite_note-137> on the
last day prior to the cooling-off day, with Ng and Tan respectively
visiting Sengkang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sengkang> and Hougang
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hougang>, with Ng visiting the sub-region
of Lorong Ah Soo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kovan,_Singapore> and
the Foo Hai Ch'an Monastery <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Foo_Hai_Ch%27an_Monastery> before ending at Kopitiam Square in
Sengkang,^[134] <#cite_note-138> while Tan was at Hougang Central.^[135]
<#cite_note-139> Tharman visited Marine Parade <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marine_Parade>, including the Marine Parade
Central Market and Food Centre.^[136] <#cite_note-140>


      Television broadcasts[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=25>]

Times are Singapore Standard Time <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Singapore_Standard_Time> (SST), which is UTC+08:00 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTC%2B08:00>.

Date 	Event
24 August 	First Presidential Candidate Broadcast
28 August 	CNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNA_(TV_network)>
Presidential Forum
30 August 	Second Presidential Candidate Broadcast

Language 	Time 	Channels/Radio stations^[137] <#cite_note-141>
English 	19:00 	CNA, CNA938 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNA938>,
MONEY FM 89.3 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MONEY_FM_89.3>, ONE FM
91.3, Kiss92, Power 98 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Power_98_(radio_station)>
21:30 	Channel 5 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Channel_5_(Singapore)>,
Gold 905 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gold_905>, Class 95 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Class_95_(radio_station)>
Malay 	Suria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suria_(TV_channel)>, Warna
942 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warna_942>
Tamil 	21:00 	Vasantham <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vasantham_(TV_channel)>, Oli 968 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oli_968>
Mandarin Chinese 	22:30 	Channel 8 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Channel_8_(Singapore)>, Capital 958 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Capital_958>, 96.3 Hao FM, UFM100.3 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
UFM100.3> and 883Jia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/883Jia>
23:30 	Channel U <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Channel_U_(Singapore)>


        First Presidential Candidate Broadcast[edit <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=26>]

The first of the two rounds of the Presidential Candidate Broadcast was
held on 24 August; the order of the candidates appearing in this round
was based on the alphabetical order of their surnames.^[138]
<#cite_note-142> ^[139] <#cite_note-143> Ng said that "the time has
come" for a president to be fully non-partisan and said that he was
neither endorsed nor represented by a political party, specifically the
ruling People's Action Party. He said that the president's role would
serve as a "constitutional check" on a bad government that might raid
the country's reserves, or appoint incompetent or corrupt individuals to
key public-service positions. He added that Singapore can "no longer
take for granted" that it will always have a "good and honest"
government, adding that there is a need for external checks, as with
good corporate governance, and that an "ownself check ownself" system is
not reliable. He also pledged to "Do Well, Do Right and Do Good" to
provide resilience of body and mind.^[140] <#cite_note-144>

Tharman said that he would bring his ideal of "independence of mind" and
"respect", should he be elected, and that he wanted to become a
"unifying figure at home and to advance Singapore's interests abroad".
He added that modern-day Singapore's democracy, as well as the current
political climate in the world, were diverse but also challenging at
times, concerning a political divide. He also had plans to voice views
in Singapore so as to prove that Singapore would "never become just
another small country" and said that he was an "optimist in our
future".^[141] <#cite_note-145>

Tan highlighted two key duties of the president, given his 30 years
prior experience as a CEO of NTUC Income Insurance Cooperative <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Income_Insurance>. One, to safeguard Singapore's
reserves, he intends to invest "prudently" with the support of the
government <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_of_Singapore> for
the benefit of Singaporeans. Two, to protect the integrity of public
service. He values the efforts of, and emphasises the need for, talented
people with many years of working experience and possessing practical
skills, not just scholars, to form a good team, and that he would give
such people the opportunity to be promoted to leadership positions. He
also stated that he did not intend to be an "adversary to the elected
government", but said that he would collaborate more with the government
and reiterated his belief in the "spirit of unity and pride", as well as
connecting with ordinary people and "their hardship and
aspirations".^[142] <#cite_note-146> Prior to the broadcast, both ELD
and the Infocomm Media Development Authority <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Infocomm_Media_Development_Authority> had amended Tan's script by
removing some inaccuracies, specifically on the president's role and on
soliciting voters.^[143] <#cite_note-147>


        CNA Presidential Forum[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
        index.php?
        title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=27>]

The CNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNA_(TV_network)> forum was held
on 28 August at about 21:09, with Otelli Edwards hosting. Eight
questions are asked of three candidates in order, each making closing
statements:^[144] <#cite_note-148> ^[145] <#cite_note-149>

  * What experience and expertise do you possess, that make you the most
    qualified candidate to be the President?
  * Beyond what the Government tells you, what factors <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reserve_power> would you consider before using
    the second key <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_powers>
    to the Past Reserves <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Reserves_of_the_Government_of_Singapore>?
  * How can you convince voters you are not politicising <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politicization> the election and will exercise
    your powers without fear or favour?
  * What unique traits do you possess that will help you represent
    Singapore on the global stage <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Foreign_relations_of_Singapore>?
  * What role would you play as president to build a more inclusive and
    compassionate society?
  * How do you plan to connect with young Singaporeans and involve them
    in writing the next chapter of the Singapore story?
  * Beyond your ceremonial and community roles, how do you intend to be
    a unifying figure for the nation?
  * What major challenges will Singapore face and how will you, within
    the powers of the President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Powers_of_the_President_of_Singapore>, help Singaporeans to cope?

The forum was rerun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rerun> on Channel 5
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Channel_5_(Singaporean_TV_channel)> at
21:00 the day after, 29 August.


        Second Presidential Candidate Broadcast[edit <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=28>]

The second of the two rounds of the Presidential Candidate Broadcast was
held on 30 August; the order of the candidates appearing in this round
of broadcast was reversed from the first round.^[146] <#cite_note-150>

Tan Kin Lian acknowledged that the president has no executive authority
over day-to-day issues, particularly those affecting younger people, but
that he could focus on using "soft influence" to encourage change,
hoping to "achieve our common goals for the benefit of Singapore".
Furthermore, he publicallyl apologised in response to the criticism he
had received over his social media posts about women from some sectors
of the public, specifically from the Association of Women for Action and
Research <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Association_of_Women_for_Action_and_Research> (AWARE). He added that he
would be "more mindful of what I say" going forward. Tan also
highlighted that one could factor his experience as president from
making "sound investment decisions" at NTUC Income and from representing
the country in an international insurance federation.^[147]
<#cite_note-151>

Tharman highlighted his track record of connecting with people from all
backgrounds in his former Taman Jurong division of Jurong GRC <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jurong_GRC>, from when he was a member of
parliament (MP) of the People's Action Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/People%27s_Action_Party> (PAP) for 22 years—his ministerial
positions including being Minister of Finance <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Ministry_of_Finance_(Singapore)>, Deputy Prime Minister <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deputy_Prime_Minister_of_Singapore>, and Senior
Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Senior_Minister_of_Singapore>—
and from his experience working with international organisations such as
the G20 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G20>, the International Monetary
Fund <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Monetary_Fund> (IMF),
the United Nations (UN), and the World Economic Forum <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Economic_Forum> (WEF). He also mentioned
that the demands on the president have increased due to the "new and
challenging future" where Singaporeans faced an increasing trend of
"profound global risks and uncertainties", and to "differentiate him
from an actual partisan candidate", stressing that his motives, despite
his political background, have "never been politically partisan".^[148]
<#cite_note-152>

Ng warned that politics in Singapore have become "highly contestable".
He added that the country cannot afford to have a president who may be
beholden to political parties, to serve their agenda, and reiterated the
flaw in relying on an "ownself check ownself" mechanism. He believed the
current generational transition of the ruling People's Action Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Action_Party> (PAP) government
carries "uncertainties and risks" which have been due to scandals
plaguing the party over the past month – such as the arrests of
Transport Minister S Iswaran <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S_Iswaran>
over allegations of corruption, and the resignations of MPs Tan Chuan-
Jin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Chuan-Jin> and Cheng Li Hui
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheng_Li_Hui> over an extramarital
affair. He also alluded to Tharman, by questioning whether it is
appropriate for an ex-finance minister who "had set fiscal policies to
then move across the table and become the president and be a check on
the very policies that he had put in place". He also brought up the 1984
National Day Rally <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Day_Rally>
speech of then Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Lee_Kuan_Yew>, stating that Singaporeans should be aware of
"silver-tongued politicians who make empty promises". He concluded that
Singapore needs a truly independent president, like himself, to break
from its past of having a president always endorsed by the PAP, to
protect the country's reserves from being squandered by a potential
rogue government.^[149] <#cite_note-153>


      [edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=29>]

All social media events and campaigning occurred in 2023, unless
otherwise stated, and are listed in chronological order.

*Date* 	*Event* 	*NKS* 	*TKL* 	*TS* 	*Method* 	*Venue/Social Media
Channel* 	*Source*
17 August 	TDK Podcast No. 234 	✔ 			Online 	Grvty Media/YouTube-The
Daily Ketchup Podcast 	^[150] <#cite_note-154>
23 August 	PE2023 Full Interview Podcast 		✔ 		Online 	YouTube-Zyrup
Media 	^[151] <#cite_note-155>
23 August 	PE2023 Full Interview Podcast 			✔ 	Online 	YouTube-Zyrup
Media 	^[152] <#cite_note-156>
23 August 	PE2023 Full Interview Podcast 	✔ 			Online 	YouTube-Zyrup
Media 	^[153] <#cite_note-157>
24 August 	CNA Speaks to Presidential Candidate 	✔ 			Televised 	
Mediacorp/YouTube's CNA channel 	^[154] <#cite_note-158>
25 August 	Election Meeting 			✔ 	Physical 	Pasir Panjang Power Station
	^[155] <#cite_note-159>
25 August 	NUSS Meet The Presidential Candidate 	✔ 			Hybrid 	NUSS Guide
House/YouTube-Ng Kok Song 	^[156] <#cite_note-160>
25 August 	CNA Speaks to Presidential Candidate 			✔ 	Televised 	
Mediacorp/YouTube's CNA channel 	^[157] <#cite_note-161>
25 August 	TDK Podcast No. 236 		✔ 		Online 	Grvty Media/YouTube-The
Daily Ketchup Podcast 	^[158] <#cite_note-162>
26 August 	NUSS Meet The Presidential Candidate 		✔ 		Hybrid 	NUSS Guide
House/Facebook-Tan Kin Lian 	^[159] <#cite_note-163>
26 August 	CNA Speaks to Presidential Candidate 		✔ 		Televised 	
Mediacorp <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mediacorp>/YouTube's CNA
channel 	^[160] <#cite_note-164>
27 August 	Ask The Next President Anything 	✔ 		✔ 	Online 	SPH Media/
YouTube-The Straits Times 	^[161] <#cite_note-165>
28 August 	Presidential Forum 	✔ 	✔ 	✔ 	Televised 	Mediacorp/YouTube's
CNA channel 	^[162] <#cite_note-166>
30 August 	TDK Podcast No. 238 			✔ 	Online 	Grvty Media/YouTube-The
Daily Ketchup Podcast 	^[163] <#cite_note-167>


      Campaign expenditures[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=30>]

On 20 October, the presidential candidates' expenditure reports were
published by the Elections Department. According to the reports, Tharman
had spent S$738,717, Ng S$312,131, and Tan S$71,366.^[164] <#cite_note-
Expenditure-168> ^[165] <#cite_note-169> By comparison, in the previous
presidential election in 2017, which was not contested, sole candidate
Yacob had reported spending S$220,875.^[166] <#cite_note-170>

Tharman also reported the receipt of about S$800,000 in donations from
eight different donors, and stated in his expenditure report that the
unspent amounts would be returned to their respective donors. Tan
received donations amounting to about S$41,800 from about 120 donors,
and reported that Tan Cheng Bock and Chee Soon Juan were not amongst his
donors. Ng financed his campaign using his own personal funds and
therefore did not report having received any donations.^[167]
<#cite_note-171> ^[168] <#cite_note-172>


      Cooling-off day controversy[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=31>]

On 2 October, the Elections Department reported that they had filed
police reports on both M Ravi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M_Ravi> and
Iris Koh <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_Koh>, the founders of anti-
vaccination activist group Healing the Divide, for repeatedly publishing
online election advertising on TikTok <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
TikTok> and Facebook <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook> during
both the cooling-off period and Polling Day, when campaigning and
advertising are strictly prohibited. According to media reports, Koh had
also accused journalists of bias whilst at Tan's residence after polls
closed. The assistant Returning Officer of the Elections Department
issued correction requests to TikTok <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
TikTok> and Meta <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meta_Platforms>, and all
the relevant videos posted by them were removed.^[169] <#cite_note-173>


    Polling[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=32>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
2023_Singaporean_presidential_elections_polling_station_in_a_void_deck_01.jpg>
Voters queuing up to vote at a polling station for the next president

Polling Day was on 1 September 2023, and polling stations were open from
08:00 to 20:00 SST <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Singapore_Standard_Time> (UTC+08:00 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
UTC%2B08:00>). As with elections since 2015 <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/2015_Singaporean_general_election>, a sample count <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sampling_(statistics)> was released by the
Elections Department prior to the announcement of the actual results to
prevent any unnecessary speculation or reliance on unofficial sources of
information while counting was still under way.^[170] <#cite_note-174>
^[171] <#cite_note-175> ^[172] <#cite_note-176> A standby counting
machine was also used in the event of an election recount <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Election_recount>, which is automatically
triggered when the top two candidates have a winning margin of within
2%.^[173] <#cite_note-177>

According to the newspaper /Lianhe Zaobao <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Lianhe_Zaobao>/, a viral image surfaced online, during the polling,
where one of the polling stations had refused entry to a female voter
who was wearing a shirt with pineapple prints,^[174] <#cite_note-178>
which amounted to political propaganda and canvassing, which were
legally forbidden during cooling-off and polling days.^[175]
<#cite_note-179>

By 12:00, four hours after the polls opened, 1,406,182 Singaporeans,
representing about 52% of the electorate, had cast their votes.^[34]
<#cite_note-TodayOnline20230901-36> That number had increased to
2,004,961 (74%) as of 15:00,^[176] <#cite_note-180> and to 2,302,996
(85%) as of 17:00.^[177] <#cite_note-181>


    Results[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=33>]

Sample counts were announced at about 22:42 and showed that Tharman
Shanmugaratnam was leading with 70% of the votes, followed by Ng Kok
Song with 16%, and Tan Kin Lian with 14%.^[178] <#cite_note-182> ^[179]
<#cite_note-183> At about 23:15, Ng conceded <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Concession_(politics)> during a press conference and congratulated
Tharman, stating that there was a clear result and there was no need to
wait for the final results.^[180] <#cite_note-184> At about 23:30, Tan
congratulated Tharman, but refused to concede until the actual results
were announced.^[181] <#cite_note-185> The local results were announced
at about 00:23 the next day.^[92] <#cite_note-Overseas-96>

The final turnout (excluding the overseas electorate) was 2,530,912
(93.41%), lower than 2011 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2011_Singaporean_presidential_election>'s and 2020 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_Singaporean_general_election>'s turnouts of
94.80% and 95.81%, respectively. The Elections Department published the
overseas vote count on 12 September. Only 3,799 votes were accepted for
counting, of which only 78 votes were rejected. Tharman Shanmugaratnam,
Ng Kok Song, and Tan Kin Lian garnered 2,834, 595, and 292 votes,
respectively, which saw only a 0.01% change in Tharman's and Tan's
respective voting percentages. ELD also said that 2,997 postal votes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Postal_voting> had been downloaded and
2,263 mails were received as of the cut-off date of 11 September, of
which only 1,345 had been accepted.^[182] <#cite_note-186> The final
turnout was 2,534,711, increasing its percentage by 0.14%, from 93.41%
to 93.55%.^[183] <#cite_note-Overseas_ELD-187> ^[92] <#cite_note-
Overseas-96>

The final results are as follows:

Candidate	Votes	%
Tharman Shanmugaratnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tharman_Shanmugaratnam>	1,749,261	70.41
Ng Kok Song <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ng_Kok_Song>	390,636	15.72
Tan Kin Lian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Kin_Lian>	344,584	13.87
Total	2,484,481	100.00
Valid votes	2,484,481	98.02
Invalid/blank votes	50,230	1.98
Total votes	2,534,711	100.00
Registered voters/turnout	2,709,455	93.55
Source: ^[184] <#cite_note-188> ^[185] <#cite_note-189> ^[183]
<#cite_note-Overseas_ELD-187>


    Reactions[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=34>]


      Domestic[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=35>]

On 2 September 2023, shortly after the announcement of the election
results, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Lee_Hsien_Loong> congratulated Tharman Shanmugaratnam on his election,
citing confidence in Tharman's ability to carry out his new duties as
president "with distinction" and intention to work closely with the
government. Lee also thanked the two losing candidates for their
participation, the election officials for their hard work, and overseas
voters for fulfilling their civic duty. Now that the election was over,
Lee urged Singapore to "tackle the challenges ahead and build a stronger
and more united nation".^[186] <#cite_note-190> Deputy Prime Ministers
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deputy_Prime_Minister_of_Singapore>
Lawrence Wong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence_Wong>^[187]
<#cite_note-191> and Heng Swee Keat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Heng_Swee_Keat> also congratulated Tharman in separate posts, so did
Lee's wife, Ho Ching <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ho_Ching>,^[188]
<#cite_note-192> and his younger brother Hsien Yang <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Hsien_Yang>.^[189] <#cite_note-193>

The other candidates separately congratulated Tharman. Ng Kok Song, on
his media at one-north <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-north>, said
that he had achieved the "No. 1 goal" of allowing Singaporeans an
opportunity to vote, which was his main objective while standing for the
presidency. He further thanked Singaporeans for their recognition and
pledged that he would continue to work with them, and also added that
"non-partisanship will now enter the vocabulary of governance in
Singapore".^[190] <#cite_note-194> At his residence in Yio Chu Kang
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yio_Chu_Kang>, Tan Kin Lian announced
that he would, on his family's advice, "take things easy", and thanked
his supporters and the opposition figures who were present for their
support. He would continue to reflect on his election bid and voice
policy concerns.^[191] <#cite_note-:19-195>

Opposition figures also sent congratulatory messages to Tharman;
Workers' Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Workers%27_Party_(Singapore)> secretary-general Pritam Singh <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pritam_Singh_(Singaporean_politician)> wrote on
Facebook that changes were necessary, and his party would continue to
push for such, adding that the elected presidency was "well-known". He
also revealed that he had worn his blue-collared shirt <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue-collar_worker> during Polling Day to mark the
occasion.^[192] <#cite_note-196> Former presidential candidate and
Progress Singapore Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Progress_Singapore_Party> (PSP) founder Tan Cheng Bock <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Cheng_Bock> also congratulated Tharman in a
Facebook post a day later, saying that Thurman's campaign was "well-
organised and dignified" and saying that Tharman "is the people's
choice".^[193] <#cite_note-197> Current PSP Secretary-general, Leong Mun
Wai <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leong_Mun_Wai>, also congratulated
Thurman and said that the election was a "testimony to the fact that
Singaporean voters do not vote along racial lines". He also said that a
'race-based' Group Representation Constituency <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_Representation_Constituency> system is "no
longer relevant".^[194] <#cite_note-198> Singapore Democratic Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore_Democratic_Party>'s Secretary-
general Chee Soon Juan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chee_Soon_Juan>
posted on Instagram <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instagram> to
congratulate Tharman, hoping that Thurman would discharge his duties
"faithfully, both in spirit and letter".^[195] <#cite_note-199> ^[/non-
primary source needed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Wikipedia:No_original_research#Primary,_secondary_and_tertiary_sources>/] ^[196] <#cite_note-200> Red Dot United <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Dot_United>'s secretary-general Ravi Philemon also congratulated Tharman, citing their team's dignified contest during the 2020 election.^[197] <#cite_note-RDU-201>

Several other labour unions also sent congratulatory messages to
Tharman: Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry chairman and
former Nominated Member of Parliament <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nominated_Member_of_Parliament> Neil Parekh wrote that the community has
benefitted much from Thurman's good counsel, and would invite him as a
guest-of-honour for the chamber's centenary celebrations in 2024.^[198]
<#cite_note-202>

In the early morning, the Taman Jurong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Taman_Jurong> Market and Food Centre was crowded in celebration of
Tharman's election, with his supporters bringing out pineapples,
chanting /Ong lai huat ah/ (lit. Good Fortune), and singing the national
anthem, "Majulah Singapura <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Majulah_Singapura>". Tharman visited several sites, such as Marsiling
Mall (with Senior Minister of State and Marsiling <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marsiling-Yew_Tee_GRC>'s MP Zaqy Mohamad <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zaqy_Mohamad>), then Our Tampines Hub <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Our_Tampines_Hub>, and HDB Hub <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HDB_Hub>, to thank supporters.^[199]
<#cite_note-203> In a prior interview before results were announced,
Tharman was "humbled" by how Singaporeans had trusted him for many years
and called the election a "vote of optimism for a future". He also
praised his rivals for having "put full effort and energy into their
campaigns", and respected the voters who did not vote for him, thanking
them for "following the issues closely".^[200] <#cite_note-204> ^[201]
<#cite_note-205> Furthermore, he said that he had not been expecting a
"high degree of endorsement" but told that there was a fair number of
people who normally were against PAP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Action_Party> but who knew this was a presidential election
and not a political or general election. He took notice of the
generational transition and hoped that his presidency would keep it a
respectful one.^[202] <#cite_note-206> On 6 September, Jurong GRC
residents voiced concerns to Red Dot United <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Red_Dot_United>, including those relating to the high cost of
living <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost_of_living>, inflation
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inflation>, and the GST <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goods_and_Services_Tax_(Singapore)> increasing to
9% by year's end.^[197] <#cite_note-RDU-201>

In the food and beverage sector, several bakeries and island-wide food
chains reported a boost in sales of pineapple-related food products,
upon Tharman's election.^[203] <#cite_note-207> The lottery <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lottery> game 4D <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/4-
Digits> revealed that the three numbers 1388, 1572, and 7040, which were
the respective polling percentages, sold out <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Selling_out> quickly, within five minutes after the results were
announced.^[204] <#cite_note-208> However, none of the numbers showed up
on either draw that weekend.^[205] <#cite_note-209> ^[206]
<#cite_note-210> Shortly after the polls closed, another viral video of
a toddler repeatedly exclaiming Tharman's name over Ng's had surfaced on
TikTok <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TikTok>.^[207] <#cite_note-211>
^[/non-primary source needed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Wikipedia:No_original_research#Primary,_secondary_and_tertiary_sources>/] The toddler's father and the uploader, Faisal Marican, thanked netizens for the video responses and informed them that The Istana <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Istana> had sent an invitation to the toddler.^[208] <#cite_note-212> In the education sector, in response to the issuance of Writ of Election earlier, the Ministry of Education <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ministry_of_Education_(Singapore)> (MOE) announced that they would reschedule its Teacher's Day celebrations, from the original date of 1 September to 11 September, and reschedule its GCE 'N' Level <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore-Cambridge_GCE_Normal_Level> examinations, from the original date of 11 September to 12 and 20 September.^[209] <#cite_note-213>


      International[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=36>]

  *  Belarus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belarus>: President
    Alexander Lukashenko <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Alexander_Lukashenko> congratulated Tharman, expressing confidence
    that Tharman would succeed in improving the well-being of citizens
    and stimulating economic growth and its relationship between the two
    countries.^[210] <#cite_note-214>
  *  Canada <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canada>: The Canadian High
    Commission congratulated Tharman for his victory, and thanked
    outgoing President Halimah Yacob <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Halimah_Yacob> for her contributions to the relationship between
    Canada and Singapore <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Canada%E2%80%93Singapore_relations>.^[211] <#cite_note-:23-215>
  *  China <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China>: President <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_People%27s_Republic_of_China>
    Xi Jinping <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xi_Jinping> called to
    congratulate Tharman via phone call, according to Xinhua News Agency
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xinhua_News_Agency>, and added that
    he would continue to work with him to improve their relationship
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    China%E2%80%93Singapore_relations>.^[212] <#cite_note-ChinaUK-216>
  *  European Union <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union>:
    Ambassador to Singapore Iwona Piórko <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Iwona_Pi%C3%B3rko> congratulated Tharman and said that the EU and
    Singapore <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Singapore%E2%80%93European_Union_relations> have a deepening
    partnership that contributes effectiveness to addressing global and
    regional challenges.^[211] <#cite_note-:23-215>
  *  India <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India>: Prime Minister
    Narendra Modi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narendra_Modi>
    congratulated Tharman and posted on Twitter <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twitter> that he will be looking forward to
    working closely on bilateral ties <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    India%E2%80%93Singapore_relations> and its India–Singapore Strategic
    Partnership.^[213] <#cite_note-217>
  *  Italy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italy>: Ambassador-designate
    to Singapore Dante Brandi posted on the Ambasciata d'Italia a
    Singapore's Instagram page a picture of his appearance at the G20
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G20> Finance Ministers and Central
    Bank Governors 2021 meeting as a commemoration of his win.^[211]
    <#cite_note-:23-215>
  *  Malaysia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malaysia>:
      o Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
        Anwar_Ibrahim> sent congratulatory messages to Tharman who
        "conjured Singapore's presidency", and stated his desire for an
        underlying bond of "family spirit" between the neighbouring
        nations <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
        Malaysia%E2%80%93Singapore_relations>.^[214] <#cite_note-218>
      o Malaysian United Democratic Alliance <https://en.wikipedia.org/
        wiki/Malaysian_United_Democratic_Alliance> (MUDA) founder and
        former minister Syed Saddiq <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
        Syed_Saddiq_Syed_Abdul_Rahman> also congratulated Tharman,
        saying that his victory truly united Singaporeans, transcending
        race, religion and politics, and reminded that it was an
        "unbreakable bond of family".^[215] <#cite_note-219> 
  *  Saudi Arabia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia>: King
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_of_Saudi_Arabia> Salman
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salman_of_Saudi_Arabia> and his Crown
    Prince <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crown_Prince_of_Saudi_Arabia>
    Mohammed bin Salman <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Mohammed_bin_Salman> both congratulated Tharman and gave wishes for
    "success" and "further progress and prosperity."^[216] <#cite_note-220>
  *  Taiwan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan>: Outgoing President
    Tsai Ing-wen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsai_Ing-wen> offered
    her congratulations to Tharman in a press release, accompanied by a
    congratulatory letter expressing her hope of furthering bilateral
    ties. Tsai also said that "Taiwan attaches great importance to its
    relations with Singapore <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Singapore%E2%80%93Taiwan_relations>", and looks forward for him to
    seek bilateral cooperation with Taiwan.^[217] <#cite_note-221>
  *  Ukraine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ukraine>: Ambassador to
    Singapore Kateryna Zelenko <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Kateryna_Zelenko> congratulated Tharman, and said that "We look
    forward to further good cooperation and friendship" between
    Singapore and Ukraine.^[211] <#cite_note-:23-215>
  *  United Arab Emirates <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    United_Arab_Emirates>: President Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohamed_bin_Zayed_Al_Nahyan>, Vice
    President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Vice_President_of_the_United_Arab_Emirates> and Prime Minister
    Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Mohammed_bin_Rashid_Al_Maktoum>, and Deputy Prime Minister Mansour
    bin Zayed Al Nahyan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Mansour_bin_Zayed_Al_Nahyan> congratulated Tharman's victory through
    cabling.^[218] <#cite_note-222>
  *  United Kingdom <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom>:
      o King <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
        Monarchy_of_the_United_Kingdom> Charles III <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_III> congratulated Tharman on his
        inauguration via Twitter, saying that "Singapore is a strategic
        partner <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
        Singapore%E2%80%93United_Kingdom_relations>" and would look
        forward to work with him to continue their relationship.^[212]
        <#cite_note-ChinaUK-216>
      o Wolfson College <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
        Wolfson_College,_Cambridge>'s president <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Head_of_college> Jane Clarke <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jane_Clarke_(scientist)> congratulated
        Tharman, an alumnus of the college. Clarke told she met him
        earlier that year and praised his mention of "fondness for
        Wolfson and his commitment to our shared vision of opportunity
        for all".^[219] <#cite_note-223> 
  *  United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States>: United
    States Department of State <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    United_States_Department_of_State> spokesman Matthew Miller
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_Miller_(spokesperson)>
    congratulated Tharman, and stated that the department would be
    looking forward to working with him in further strengthening the
    relationship between Singapore and the United States <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore%E2%80%93United_States_relations>. He
    also thanked outgoing President Halimah Yacob for her
    contributions.^[220] <#cite_note-224>
  *  Vietnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vietnam>: President
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Vietnam> Võ Văn Thưởng
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%B5_V%C4%83n_Th%C6%B0%E1%BB%9Fng>
    mailed a letter congratulating Tharman on his inauguration on 14
    September.^[221] <#cite_note-225> 


    Analysis[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=37>]


      Pre-Nomination Day[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=38>]

On 14 August /TODAY <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Today_(Singapore_newspaper)>/ interviewed 15 first-time presidential
election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Presidential_elections_in_Singapore> voters, with ages ranging from 21
to 33, on their knowledge of the elected presidency. Their responses
ranged from a few who indicated little knowledge or interest in politics
to a handful who understood the topic well.^[222] <#cite_note-226>

The following day, /TODAY/ and CNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
CNA_(TV_network)> conducted a survey of 1,500 first-time voters, where
the vast majority of them understood most of the presidential roles. The
roles of being a symbolic figure and a diplomat were identified by about
95% of them, followed by at 91% knowing about the requirements of caring
for the community and consulting with the Council of Presidential
Advisors, with 88.4% understanding that the president is required to
safeguard asset reserves <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Reserves_of_the_Government_of_Singapore>. Only 36.1% knew that the
president does not take orders from Parliament <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parliament_of_Singapore>.^[223] <#cite_note-:16-227>

/TODAY/ and CNA conducted another survey about the relationship between
Parliament and the President, where some knew that the elected president
generally takes instructions from the Cabinet <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Cabinet_of_Singapore>. Analysts revealed that most first-time
voters having a poor understanding of the election may imply that they
have little to no interest in politics. Former Member of Parliament
Inderjit Singh <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Inderjit_Singh_(Singaporean_politician)> hinted that these first-timers
may be "swayed by populist manifestos of some candidates without having
the opportunity to verify facts". Kantar Public analyst Leong Chan-Hoong
noted significant changes with educated Singaporeans in mind, and that
the young voters may not be apparent to such a demographic.^[223]
<#cite_note-:16-227>


      On Nomination Day[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=39>]

When candidates were confirmed on 18 August, many political analysts
predicted that Tharman Shanmugaratnam would win and cited the slate of
candidates being "very different" with candidates being from two racial
groups. Institute of Policy Studies Senior Researcher Gillian Koh
suggested that the voters would find it difficult to resist Tharman's
"unparalleled international standing". Associate Professor of law at
Singapore Management University <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Singapore_Management_University> Eugene Tan <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Eugene_Tan> predicted that people would "assume his victory is a
foregone conclusion" but that should not be taken for granted. Tan
thought it praiseworthy that the three candidates had experience in
making strategic decisions with regard to the management of large funds,
as well as having fine reputations.^[224] <#cite_note-:18-228>

Analysts had differing views regarding George Goh <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Goh_Ching_Wah>'s ineligibility to run for
the presidency. Mustafa Izzuddin, a senior international affairs analyst
at Solaris Strategies Singapore, was surprised that Goh was ineligible.
To him, Goh could bring something unique to the table, due to his
private sector experience. It would give voters an additional choice.
Eugene Tan agreed with Goh being ineligible, highlighting the difference
in calculating the required shareholder equity of S$500 million on the
basis of one, versus many, companies. To him, one S$500 million company
is different from running five hundred S$1 million companies. Therefore,
he felt that the Presidential Elections Committee <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presidential_Elections_Committee>'s decision was
understandable.^[224] <#cite_note-:18-228>


      During campaigning period[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=40>]

On 27 August, National University of Singapore <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_University_of_Singapore> (NUS)
Sociologist Ern Ser Tan noted on LinkedIn <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/LinkedIn> that there was an "undercurrent" with the election
turning on maintaining the current political order versus seeking regime
change, with the likelihood of political transformation. He added that,
with Tan Kin Lian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tan_Kin_Lian>'s
involvement with Tan Cheng Bock <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tan_Cheng_Bock> and Tan Jee Say <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tan_Jee_Say>, the election has become clearly defined by the differences
between the political orders of the ruling government and the
opposition.^[225] <#cite_note-229> NUS Arts and Social Science Lecturer
Rebecca Grace Tan was reported to have referred the term 'Independent'
to that of the People's Action Party, and that Tharman's decisive win
wasn't decisive in signifying that non-partisanship was the primary
deciding factor for many voters. Tan's opposition support sowed further
doubts about the advantages of being non-partisan.^[226] <#cite_note-230>

In light of the "One vote, Three presidents?" slogan which surfaced on
28 August, political observers began to query Tan Kin Lian about the
assertion that he is an "independent candidate". Eugene Tan commented
that "It effectively asserts that if Tan (Kin Lian) wins, he will
attempt to transform the presidency into a partisan institution" and
further stated that a non-partisan president "must be above the
political fray". Eugene Tan believed that party endorsements or
endorsements by politicians can make the president beholden to the
opposition politicians and ruin the presidency.^[227] <#cite_note-:20-231>

School of Social Sciences, at the Nanyang Technological University
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nanyang_Technological_University> (NTU),
Assistant Professor Walid Jumblatt Abdullah's analysis suggests that Tan
Kin Lian was attempting to position himself as the "ultimate anti-
establishment candidate". Felix Tan, another lecturer at NTU, said that
voting for Tan would suggest voting for opposition, which belies being
non-partisan,^[227] <#cite_note-:20-231> and that Tan's smear
campaigning brought doubt on his being worthy of standing as a
candidate.^[228] <#cite_note-232> He also stressed that the relationship
between general and presidential elections is "conflated" and that can
affect democracy.^[229] <#cite_note-233>

In a radio interview on MONEY FM 89.3, on "Breakfast with Lynlee Foo and
Ryan Huang" on 30 August, Eugene Tan praised the widespread use of
social media to communicate in the election.^[230] <#cite_note-234>


      After the release of election results[edit <https://
      en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=41>]

When the sample counts were released on 2 September, political analysts
suggested that Tharman's personal charisma and past track record and
experience, including his constituency of Jurong GRC <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jurong_GRC> being the best-performing constituency
for two consecutive elections in 2015 and 2020, may have attributed to a
landslide victory, as opposed to Ng's lack of public exposure and Tan's
previous controversies, which to Eugene Tan <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Eugene_Tan>, cited in the CNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
CNA_(TV_network)> Polling Day results special, was a "mind-boggling"
result. Eugene Tan also highlighted Tan's relationship with opposition
parties, stating that Tan had "too [many] oppositional forces [involved
in] his candidacy". In addition, Tan's campaign had a misconception of
what the president did as well as expressing views that were perceived
as "misogynist, racist, [and] even nativist", which a majority of
Singaporeans overwhelmingly rejected.^[231] <#cite_note-:21-235>

Eugene Tan also noted that the slight decline in turnout and an increase
in spoilt votes meant that the election "generally [did] not make much
of a difference" and was an effort at a "protest vote". He added that
"the drop would be rather significant as this would signal that there
might still be those who have some concerns with how the Presidential
Election was run". During the 2011 presidential election <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2011_Singaporean_presidential_election>, turnout
was 94.80% (of which 1.79% or 37,849 votes were rejected), while during
the 2023 presidential election, turnout was 93.41% (of which 1.98% or
50,152 votes were rejected).^[231] <#cite_note-:21-235> ^[191]
<#cite_note-:19-195>

The reactions of other political analysts to the election results
varied, such as NTU political analyst Dr Felix Tan saying that it was
"rather unexpected and it's quite a surprise", and emphasising that
"establishment versus anti-establishment" might have attributed to the
anticlimactic result; and NUS Associate Professor Chong Ja Ian
criticising the result, stating that what Tharman had was a huge
advantage against "two weak opponents" and feeling that the result was
to elect "strong candidates like everyone else". Chong highlighted the
short campaigning period of just nine days, as well as Tan's "negative
spillover effect" onto opposition supporters, as contributing to both
Tan's and Ng's respective decisive defeats.^[231] <#cite_note-:21-235>

Following the election, Gillian Koh thought that the landslide was the
result of the "Tharman effect", a term which was coined during the 45th
St. Gallen Symposium <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
St._Gallen_Symposium>, in 2015, where Tharman was one of the
participants.^[232] <#cite_note-236> Tharman's campaign was acclaimed by
several analysts. Eugene Tan pointed out that Tharman's slogan, "race is
never absent, but it is not the only factor", would be seen as
signifying an evolution of the nation, praised the voters for voting for
the merits of his personal qualities and track record, and praised the
PAP government for promoting "multiracial meritocracy". In another
interview, on the /Mothership <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mothership_(website)>/ website, Eugene Tan said that "Singaporean voters
are sophisticated" and that they have treated the presidential election
as it is and not as "a proxy general election or a referendum on the
People's Action Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Action_Party> (PAP)". In answer to a question on how the
result will be an indication of the next Singaporean general election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Next_Singaporean_general_election>, he
warned that the PAP should not treat this result as the "ground being
sweet", reminding that parliamentary elections are different, as they
are elections between parties rather than individuals.^[233]
<#cite_note-237> ^[234] <#cite_note-238>

Leong Chan-Hoong also praised Singaporeans over the results, agreeing
that they have voted "about trust of the candidate", over certain doubts
and past issues pertaining to the scandals and resignations <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_resignations_from_government> from the PAP
government prior to the election.^[235] <#cite_note-239> However, Ng's
mention of the "ownself check ownself system" which had been borrowed
from opposition parties – specifically from Pritam Singh <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pritam_Singh_(Singaporean_politician)> of the
Workers' Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Workers%27_Party_(Singapore)> (WP) who first coined the term back in
2011 – also raised concerns, citing that it was "very difficult for
someone to set up the system to question the system". Analysts implied
that voters should also understand the importance of the authority of
the president, in addition to the "bread-and-butter issues".^[236]
<#cite_note-240>

Singapore Management University <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Singapore_Management_University> visiting professor Lee Kong Chian, and
former Nominated Member of Parliament <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nominated_Member_of_Parliament> and Legal Adviser to the President and
Council of Presidential Advisers Walter Woon <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Walter_Woon> said that, in an election like this, the first-past-
the-post system <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-past-the-
post_system> only really works when there are two contenders, and that
no-contest <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walkover> elections are bad;
but that having too many contenders could also be undesirable.^[237]
<#cite_note-241> He also said that party politics are inevitable, but
they are not necessarily decisive. He added that pundits who could
predict the trend of Tharman's clear mandate should "take nothing for
granted", and that the victory was an unusual one for a multi-candidate
contest, which hints at the possibility that there is another
establishment candidate who will be able to repeat this feat against a
more formidable opponent in future presidential elections.^[238]
<#cite_note-242>

According to journalists at the /The Straits Times <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Straits_Times>/ (ST), in a podcast on 4
September, a "contextualized" traditional campaigning is still effective
and voters must be prepared to adapt to such scenarios. In another
podcast, with ST's multimedia correspondent Hairianto Diman and deputy
news editor Grace Ho, it was pointed out that the election would be seen
as determining who would represent in a global-level and the
generational changes ahead for the government.^[239] <#cite_note-243>

In commentary published on CNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
CNA_(TV_network)>'s website, former newspaper editor Han Fook Kwang
wrote that the election results are politically significant, as the
large margin of victory Tharman enjoyed undermines a claim previously
made by members of the Singaporean government that older Singaporeans
are not ready to accept a non-Chinese as prime minister.^[7]
<#cite_note-HFK-PE2023-8> The results were also seen as undermining an
argument for a PAP race-related policy that culminated in the enactment
of the hiatus-triggered model for presidential elections (in the case
for 2017 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2017_Singaporean_presidential_election>), where candidacies in certain
presidential elections are reserved for people of certain minority
races.^[1] <#cite_note-TW-PE2023-2>

In an article posted on /Mothership/, editor Sulaiman Daud commented
that Tharman's high probability of winning did not make this election "a
charade",^[240] <#cite_note-244> but cited Tharman's slogans of "hard
carry" and "October Surprise" as contributing to his decisive win. Daud
also weighed other factors, such as the competition between the other
two rivals, or what Singaporeans want in its next President.^[241]
<#cite_note-245> Another editor, Tan Min-Wei, also praised the contests
and how the election went smoothly, citing a quote from a 1999 American
political drama <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_drama> /The
West Wing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_West_Wing>/ that "decisions
are made by those who show up".^[242] <#cite_note-246> Republic
Polytechnic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republic_Polytechnic>
chairman and chief executive officer of Economic Development Innovations
Abel Ang said that people like Tharman believed that people lacking
common experiences are "unhealthy for Singapore", and that the life of
the haves is increasingly looking different from those who have-not. He
also referenced a /Sesame Street <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sesame_Street>/ song "The People In Your Neighborhood", one of his
favourite songs, as encouraging unity.^[243] <#cite_note-247>


    Inauguration[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=42>]

Tharman Shanmugratanam's inauguration took place at The Istana <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Istana> on Thursday, 14 September 2023, at
around 19:40, marking the start of his six-year term as President of
Singapore <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Singapore>.^[244]
<#cite_note-248> Similar to preceding presidents after Benjamin Sheares
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Sheares>, Tharman said he would
not be residing at The Istana so that he would remain actively involved
with Singaporeans.^[245] <#cite_note-249> ^[246] <#cite_note-250> Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Hsien_Loong>
gave a speech where he said that the election meant the voters had said
that the "race is a smaller factor now" and Tharman's election was "on
his merits, by an overwhelming majority". Lee added that he respected
Tharman's "long and distinguished" career and would look forward for
their cooperation.^[247] <#cite_note-251> In Tharman's inauguration
speech, he swore to be "scrupulous and independent" in fulfilling his
presidential role and to carry out the president's custodial powers. He
also promised to unify Singapore, to "make us a better society, and add
to our ballast as we face a more turbulent world", citing "we only truly
succeed when we succeed together". The president being an international
diplomat, his maintaining Singapore's principles—in the wake of the
current economic trends, the China–United States relations <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China%E2%80%93United_States_relations>, and the
ongoing Russian-Ukraine war <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine>—was important. He again mentioned that "we
must not allow any of our differences to divide us" and again reminded
people that Singapore must make sure that "COVID-19 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic> would not be Singapore's last
crisis". The inauguration was witnessed by all cabinet ministers (except
S Iswaran <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S_Iswaran>), emeritus Senior
Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Senior_Minister_of_Singapore>
Goh Chok Tong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goh_Chok_Tong>, and former
president Tony Tan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tony_Tan>, along with
their spouses;^[248] <#cite_note-252> Lee's wife Ho Ching <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ho_Ching> was absent on that day.^[249]
<#cite_note-253>

In the early morning of 13 September, the day before the inauguration,
President Halimah Yacob <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halimah_Yacob>
thanked all the workers and staff members residing in The Istana before
she departed for her retirement.^[250] <#cite_note-254> Halimah revealed
in the final days of her presidency that she recalled on the
controversial walkover of the preceding presidential election,^[251]
<#cite_note-255> but reflected that she was "a president for all people,
regardless of race, language, religion", and reflected on the early days
of her presidency when security concerns were raised, given that she
resided in public housing in Yishun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Yishun> at the time. She also announced her retirement after nearly 22
years of political involvement, and said that she would continue to work
with the community "in different capacities", raising awareness for
mental health and helping people with disabilities, and with empowering
women and advocating for a meritocracy.^[252] <#cite_note-256> ^[253]
<#cite_note-257> In her final remarks of her farewell speech, she
reminded Singaporeans must retain its values of unity and purpose.^[254]
<#cite_note-258> Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, in his response at her
farewell reception later that night, thanked her for fulfilling her
promise to be a "President for everyone" and for her commitments during
her tenure.^[255] <#cite_note-259> ^[256] <#cite_note-260> MeWATCH
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MeWATCH> and CNA posted a video dedicated
to her presidency.^[257] <#cite_note-261> ^[258] <#cite_note-262> On 1
October, Halimah was named as the new chancellor of the Singapore
University of Social Sciences <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Singapore_University_of_Social_Sciences>.^[259] <#cite_note-263> On 25
October, she was awarded the Order of Temasek <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Darjah_Utama_Temasek> (with High Distinction).^[260] <#cite_note-264>


    Notes[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=43>]

 1. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-E11_1-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-E11_1-1>
    Compared to 2011.
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-12>* In Singapore, its citizens are organised under
    the CMIO (Chinese–Malay–Indian–Other) system of categorisation.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-77>* Endorsement made in June shortly after Tharman
    announced his resignations from his ministerial positions and as a
    member of the PAP to run in the presidential election.^[74]
    <#cite_note-76>
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-81>* Although Chee had endorsed Tan, he noted some
    reservations as well as his disagreements with Tan's views
    particularly on his comments on women and opposition politics.^[77]
    <#cite_note-80>


    References[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=44>]

 1. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-TW-PE2023_2-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-TW-
    PE2023_2-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-TW-PE2023_2-2> Wong, Tessa (2
    September 2023). "Tharman Shanmugaratnam: Singapore picks a
    president who could've been much more" <https://www.bbc.com/news/
    world-asia-66643667>. /BBC News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    BBC_News>/. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
 2. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-electiondayannoucement_3-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-electiondayannoucement_3-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-
    electiondayannoucement_3-2> Goh, Yan Han (11 August 2023).
    "Singapore Presidential Election 2023: Polling Day on Sept 1,
    Nomination Day on Aug 22" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    politics/singapore-presidential-election-2023-polling-day-on-sept-1-
    nomination-day-on-aug-22>. /The Straits Times/. ISSN <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://
    www.worldcat.org/issn/0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230830135103/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    singapore-presidential-election-2023-polling-day-on-sept-1-
    nomination-day-on-aug-22> from the original on 30 August 2023.
    Retrieved 11 August 2023.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-4>* Heong, Sim Kang (9 June 2023). "Here's How Much
    Singapore's President And Cabinet Ministers Are Paid In Salary"
    <https://dollarsandsense.sg/heres-much-singapores-president-cabinet-
    ministers-paid-salary/>. /DollarsAndSense.sg/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230830135134/https://dollarsandsense.sg/heres-
    much-singapores-president-cabinet-ministers-paid-salary/> from the
    original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 11 August 2023.
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-5>* Rules relating to how a company's shareholders'
    equity is to be determined are set out in the Presidential Elections
    (Certificate of Eligibility) Regulations 2017 (S 263/2017 <https://
    sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/PrEA1991-S263-2017>), regs. 21–24.
 5. *^ <#cite_ref-6>* /Report of the Constitutional Commission 2016
    [Chairman: Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon]/ <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20170729025724/https://www.gov.sg/~/media/elected%20presidency/
    files/
    report%20of%20the%20constitutional%20commission%202016.pdf#page=50>
    (PDF), Singapore: The Commission, 16 August 2016, p. 40, para. 4.3,
    OCLC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OCLC_(identifier)> 958453495
    <https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/958453495>, archived from the
    original <https://www.gov.sg/~/media/elected%20presidency/files/
    report%20of%20the%20constitutional%20commission%202016.pdf#page=50>
    (PDF) on 29 July 2017.
 6. *^ <#cite_ref-7>* "Constitution, Art. 19(2)(f)" <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20170903051858/http://statutes.agc.gov.sg/aol/
    search/display/
    view.w3p;ident=d66f6a16-4d10-4700-94db-5e7d88aea502;page=0;query=DocId%3A%22cf2412ff-fca5-4a64-a8ef-b95b8987728e%22%20Status%3Ainforce%20Depth%3A0;rec=0#pr19-he-.>. Archived from the original <http://statutes.agc.gov.sg/aol/search/display/view.w3p;ident=d66f6a16-4d10-4700-94db-5e7d88aea502;page=0;query=DocId%3A%22cf2412ff-fca5-4a64-a8ef-b95b8987728e%22%20Status%3Ainforce%20Depth%3A0;rec=0#pr19-he-.> on 3 September 2017. Retrieved 1 October 2017. "Art. 19(2)(f). A person shall be qualified to be elected as President if he is not a member of any political party on the date of his nomination for election;"
 7. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-HFK-PE2023_8-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    HFK-PE2023_8-1> Han, Fook Kwang (6 September 2023). "Commentary: Why
    the 2023 Presidential Election results are politically significant"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/commentary/singapore-tharman-
    presidential-election-political-significance-3748486>. /CNA
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNA_(TV_network)>/. Singapore.
    Retrieved 6 September 2023.
 8. *^ <#cite_ref-9>* Lin, Chen (1 September 2023). "Candidate close to
    establishment wins Singapore presidential race" <https://
    www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/former-ruling-party-member-wins-
    singapore-presidential-race-elections-department-2023-09-01/>.
    Reuters <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reuters>. Retrieved 6
    September 2023.
 9. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:22_10-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    22_10-1> Tham, Davina (6 September 2023). "Did opposition backing
    help or hurt Tan Kin Lian in the Presidential Election?" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-presidential-
    election-opposition-support-tan-cheng-bock-3747091>. /CNA <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNA_(TV_network)>/. Singapore. Retrieved 6
    September 2023.
10. *^ <#cite_ref-11>* "Elected Presidency: Amendments to Constitution
    passed in Parliament" <https://web.archive.org/web/20190606165027/
    https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/elected-presidency-
    amendments-to-constitution-passed-in-parliame-7719282>. Channel
    NewsAsia. 9 November 2016. Archived from the original <http://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/elected-presidency-
    amendments-to-constitution-passed-in-parliame-7719282> on 6 June
    2019. Retrieved 13 September 2017.
11. *^ <#cite_ref-straitstimes1_13-0>* Yong, Charissa (8 November 2016).
    "Parliament: 2017 presidential election will be reserved for Malay
    candidates, says PM Lee" <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20170806145023/http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    parliament-2017-presidential-election-will-be-reserved-for-malay-
    candidates-says-pm-lee>. /The Straits Times/. Archived from the
    original <http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/parliament-2017-
    presidential-election-will-be-reserved-for-malay-candidates-says-pm-
    lee> on 6 August 2017. Retrieved 6 August 2017.
12. *^ <#cite_ref-:3_14-0>* "Only one Singaporean is fit to be
    president" <https://www.economist.com/news/asia/21728865-or-so-
    government-concludes-only-one-singaporean-fit-be-president>. /The
    Economist <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Economist>/. 13
    September 2017. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20170913185053/https://www.economist.com/news/asia/21728865-or-so-
    government-concludes-only-one-singaporean-fit-be-president> from the
    original on 13 September 2017. Retrieved 14 September 2017.
13. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:8_15-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:8_15-1>
    Lim, Vanessa; Ganesan, Natasha (29 May 2023). "CNA Explains: What
    you need to know about Singapore's upcoming Presidential Election"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/cna-explains-what-you-
    need-know-about-singapores-upcoming-presidential-
    election-3523291>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230805095453/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/cna-
    explains-what-you-need-know-about-singapores-upcoming-presidential-
    election-3523291> from the original on 5 August 2023. Retrieved 17
    August 2023.
14. *^ <#cite_ref-16>* "ELD | Presidential Elections" <https://
    www.eld.gov.sg/elections_presidential.html>. /www.eld.gov.sg/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230801032308/https://
    www.eld.gov.sg/elections_presidential.html> from the original on 1
    August 2023. Retrieved 17 August 2023.
15. *^ <#cite_ref-17>* "What will the presidential election process look
    like?" <https://www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/what-will-
    presidential-election-process-look>. /businesstimes.com.sg/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230610185815/https://
    www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/what-will-presidential-election-
    process-look> from the original on 10 June 2023. Retrieved 17 August
    2023.
16. *^ <#cite_ref-18>* Zalizan, Taufiq (11 August 2023). "Writ issued
    for Presidential Election; Nomination Day on Aug 22, Polling Day on
    Sept 1" <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/writ-issued-
    presidential-election-nomination-day-aug-22-polling-day-
    sept-1-2226161>. /Today/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230811093814/https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/writ-issued-
    presidential-election-nomination-day-aug-22-polling-day-
    sept-1-2226161> from the original on 11 August 2023. Retrieved 17
    August 2023.
17. *^ <#cite_ref-19>* "Writ of Election" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/
    gazettes/2023/Writ%20of%20Election.pdf> (PDF). Elections Department
    Singapore. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830135121/
    https://www.eld.gov.sg/gazettes/2023/Writ%20of%20Election.pdf> (PDF)
    from the original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
18. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:9_20-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:9_20-1>
    Goh, Yan Han (11 August 2023). "Singapore Presidential Election
    2023: Polling Day on Sept 1, Nomination Day on Aug 22" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/singapore-presidential-
    election-2023-polling-day-on-sept-1-nomination-day-on-aug-22>. /The
    Straits Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230811075749/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    singapore-presidential-election-2023-polling-day-on-sept-1-
    nomination-day-on-aug-22> from the original on 11 August 2023.
    Retrieved 11 August 2023.
19. *^ <#cite_ref-21>* "Presidential Elections (Prescribed Forms)
    Regulations – Singapore Statutes Online" <https://sso.agc.gov.sg:
    5443/SL/PrEA1991-RG1?DocDate=20201223&ProvIds=Sc-
    &ViewType=Advance&Phrase=company+law&WiAl=1>. /sso.agc.gov.sg/.
    Retrieved 17 August 2023.
20. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:10_22-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    10_22-1> "Elections Department Singapore" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/
    press/2023/PR%20on%20Presidential%20Election%202023.pdf> (PDF). /
    eld.gov.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230817000338/
    https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/
    PR%20on%20Presidential%20Election%202023.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on 17 August 2023. Retrieved 17 August 2023.
21. *^ <#cite_ref-23>* Goh, Yan Han (12 August 2023). "Presidential
    election candidates encouraged to use social media, TV; rallies not
    recommended: ELD" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    presidential-election-candidates-encouraged-to-use-platforms-of-
    national-reach-rallies-not-encouraged-eld>. /The Straits Times/.
    ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0585-3923>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230830135119/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/presidential-election-candidates-encouraged-to-
    use-platforms-of-national-reach-rallies-not-encouraged-eld> from the
    original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 13 August 2023.
22. *^ <#cite_ref-24>* "Singapore Presidential Election to be held on
    Sep 1, Nomination Day on Aug 22" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/singapore-presidential-election-polling-day-sep-1-
    nomination-aug-22-writ-3651756>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230817153339/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/singapore-presidential-election-polling-day-sep-1-
    nomination-aug-22-writ-3651756> from the original on 17 August 2023.
    Retrieved 17 August 2023.
23. *^ <#cite_ref-ELJV1_25-0>* Hamzah, Aqil (20 July 2023).
    "Presidential Election 2023: More than 2.7 million eligible to vote"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-
    more-than-27-million-eligible-to-vote>. /The Straits Times/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830140253/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-more-
    than-27-million-eligible-to-vote> from the original on 30 August
    2023. Retrieved 18 August 2023.
24. *^ <#cite_ref-26>* Republic of Singapore: Election for President
    <http://www.electionguide.org/elections/id/2202/> Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230103193236/https://www.electionguide.org/
    elections/id/2202/> 3 January 2023 at the Wayback Machine <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine> IFES
25. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:17_27-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    17_27-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:17_27-2> "More polling stations and
    active officials for Presidential Election 2023: ELD" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-more-
    polling-stations-queue-status-x-stamp-postal-vote-3649711>. /CNA/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230901150501/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-more-
    polling-stations-queue-status-x-stamp-postal-vote-3649711> from the
    original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
26. *^ <#cite_ref-28>* "Where does my ballot go?" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/multimedia/graphics/2023/08/where-does-my-
    ballot-go/index.html>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230831034820/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    multimedia/graphics/2023/08/where-does-my-ballot-go/index.html?
    shell> from the original on 31 August 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
27. *^ <#cite_ref-29>* "ELD apologises after nearly 10,000 voters in
    Tanjong Pagar GRC receive two poll cards due to printer's error"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-presidential-
    election-2023-elections-department-apology-poll-cards-printer-
    error-3720811>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230830140146/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-
    presidential-election-2023-elections-department-apology-poll-cards-
    printer-error-3720811> from the original on 30 August 2023.
    Retrieved 24 August 2023.
28. *^ <#cite_ref-30>* "Singaporeans on non-voter list for future
    elections will be individually informed via mail and Singpass"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singaporeans-non-voter-
    list-future-elections-will-be-individually-informed-mail-and-
    singpass-3780086>. /CNA/. Retrieved 26 September 2023.
29. *^ <#cite_ref-31>* "About 200 Singaporeans' names left out of
    voters' list for Presidential Election despite claims they voted in
    GE 2020" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-
    election-singaporeans-unable-vote-names-registers-electors-eld-
    ge2020-3721766>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230830140142/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    presidential-election-singaporeans-unable-vote-names-registers-
    electors-eld-ge2020-3721766> from the original on 30 August 2023.
    Retrieved 24 August 2023.
30. *^ <#cite_ref-32>* "About 200 Singaporeans' names left out of
    voters' list for Presidential Election despite claims they voted in
    GE 2020" <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/about-200-
    singaporeans-names-left-out-voters-list-presidential-election-
    despite-claims-they-voted-ge-2020-2240081>. /TODAY <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Today_(Singapore_newspaper)>/. 24 August 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830140146/https://
    www.todayonline.com/singapore/about-200-singaporeans-names-left-out-
    voters-list-presidential-election-despite-claims-they-voted-
    ge-2020-2240081> from the original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 24
    August 2023.
31. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Bill_33-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    Bill_33-1> Ng, Wei Kai (6 March 2023). "New election laws to allow
    postal voting for overseas S'poreans; polling stations in nursing
    homes" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/new-
    election-laws-allow-postal-voting-for-overseas-s-poreans-polling-
    stations-for-nursing-homes>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230901053309/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/new-election-laws-allow-postal-voting-for-
    overseas-s-poreans-polling-stations-for-nursing-homes> from the
    original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
32. *^ <#cite_ref-34>* Tan, Christine (1 September 2023). "Presidential
    election: Trial brings voting to nursing homes, lets bedridden
    residents vote for the first time" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/trial-brings-voting-to-nursing-homes-lets-
    bedridden-residents-vote-for-the-first-time>. /The Straits Times/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230901054740/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/trial-brings-voting-to-
    nursing-homes-lets-bedridden-residents-vote-for-the-first-time> from
    the original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
33. *^ <#cite_ref-35>* Tan, Christine (1 September 2023). "Presidential
    election: Trial brings voting to nursing homes, lets bedridden
    residents vote for the first time" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/trial-brings-voting-to-nursing-homes-lets-
    bedridden-residents-vote-for-the-first-time>. /The Straits Times/.
    ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0585-3923>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230901054740/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/trial-brings-voting-to-nursing-homes-lets-
    bedridden-residents-vote-for-the-first-time> from the original on 1
    September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
34. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-TodayOnline20230901_36-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-TodayOnline20230901_36-1> "PE 2023: ELD advises public to
    vote later in the day amid morning queue 'build-up', e-registration
    system glitches" <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/pe-2023-eld-
    advises-public-vote-later-day-amid-morning-queue-build-e-
    registration-system-glitches-2245076>. /TODAY/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230901103338/https://www.todayonline.com/
    singapore/pe-2023-eld-advises-public-vote-later-day-amid-morning-
    queue-build-e-registration-system-glitches-2245076> from the
    original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
35. *^ <#cite_ref-37>* Iau, Jean (18 September 2023). "ELD to tighten
    measures after some voters received two poll cards" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/eld-to-tighten-measures-after-some-
    voters-received-two-poll-cards>. /The Straits Times/. Retrieved 26
    September 2023.
36. *^ <#cite_ref-38>* Iau, Jean (19 September 2023). "S'poreans who
    have been struck off voter rolls will be individually notified by
    mail, Singpass app" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    politics/singaporeans-who-have-been-struck-off-voter-rolls-will-be-
    individually-notified-by-mail-singpass-app>. /The Straits Times/.
    Retrieved 26 September 2023.
37. *^ <#cite_ref-39>* "Elections Department Singapore" <https://
    www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/Press%20Release%20-
    %20Inspection%20of%20list%20of%20non-
    voters%20restoration%20of%20names%20to%20Registers%20of%20Electors%202023%20(Final).pdf> (PDF). /www.eld.gov.sg/. Retrieved 29 November 2023.
38. *^ <#cite_ref-40>* "Elections Department Singapore" <https://
    www.eld.gov.sg/gazettes/2023/Notice%20under%20section%2026(6)%20-
    %209%20Nov%201pm.pdf> (PDF). /www.eld.gov.sg/. Retrieved 29 November
    2023.
39. *^ <#cite_ref-41>* See Kit, Tang. "Mail voting for overseas
    Singaporeans, revised election advertising rules among proposed
    changes to laws" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    overseas-postal-voting-new-advertising-rules-proposed-changes-
    election-laws-3256711>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230322063523/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    overseas-postal-voting-new-advertising-rules-proposed-changes-
    election-laws-3256711> from the original on 22 March 2023. Retrieved
    4 March 2023.
40. *^ <#cite_ref-42>* "Singapore Elections Department – Overseas
    Polling Stations" <http://www.eld.gov.sg/voters_ops.html>. /
    eld.gov.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20150830142429/
    http://www.eld.gov.sg/voters_ops.html> from the original on 30
    August 2015. Retrieved 1 June 2017.
41. *^ <#cite_ref-43>* ELD. "Singapore Elections Department – Who Can
    Vote Overseas?" <http://www.eld.gov.sg/voters_overseas.html>. /
    eld.gov.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20170605122014/
    http://www.eld.gov.sg/voters_overseas.html> from the original on 5
    June 2017. Retrieved 1 June 2017.
42. *^ <#cite_ref-ELJV2_44-0>* Correspondent, Goh Yan HanPolitical (23
    August 2023). "More than half of 6,649 registered overseas voters to
    try new postal voting for presidential election" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/more-than-half-of-6649-
    registered-overseas-voters-to-try-new-postal-voting-for-
    presidential-election>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230823090028/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/more-than-half-of-6649-registered-overseas-
    voters-to-try-new-postal-voting-for-presidential-election> from the
    original on 23 August 2023. Retrieved 23 August 2023.
43. *^ <#cite_ref-45>* "S'poreans can go ahead to vote in HK despite
    upcoming Super Typhoon Saola" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/s-poreans-can-go-ahead-to-vote-in-hk-despite-upcoming-
    super-typhoon-saola>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230901051402/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/s-poreans-can-go-ahead-to-vote-in-hk-despite-upcoming-
    super-typhoon-saola> from the original on 1 September 2023.
    Retrieved 1 September 2023.
44. *^ <#cite_ref-46>* "PRESS RELEASE POLL TO PROCEED AT HONG KONG
    OVERSEAS POLLING STATION" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/
    PR%20on%20Poll%20to%20Proceed%20at%20Hong%20Kong%20Overseas%20Polling%20Station.pdf> (PDF). Retrieved 12 September 2023.
45. *^ <#cite_ref-47>* "Japan records highest average temperature in 125
    years, weather agency says" <https://www.independent.co.uk/climate-
    change/news/japan-heatwave-record-temperature-b2403260.html>. /The
    Independent/. 1 September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230901124209/https://www.independent.co.uk/climate-change/
    news/japan-heatwave-record-temperature-b2403260.html> from the
    original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
46. *^ <#cite_ref-48>* "Issuance of Certificate of Eligibility for
    Presidential Election 2023" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/
    PR%20on%20Issuance%20of%20Certificate%20of%20Eligibility%20for%20PE2023.pdf> (PDF). /Elections Department Singapore/.
47. *^ <#cite_ref-49>* "Elections Department Singapore" <https://
    www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/
    PR%20on%20issuance%20of%20Community%20Certificates%20for%20PE2023.pdf> (PDF). /eld.gov.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230818092239/https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/PR%20on%20issuance%20of%20Community%20Certificates%20for%20PE2023.pdf> (PDF) from the original on 18 August 2023. Retrieved 18 August 2023.
48. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:13_50-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    13_50-1> Goh, Yan Han (8 June 2023). "SM Tharman to run for
    President, will resign from Govt and PAP on July 7" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/sm-tharman-to-run-for-
    president-will-resign-from-govt-and-pap-on-july-7>. /The Straits
    Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230815231707/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/sm-tharman-to-run-
    for-president-will-resign-from-govt-and-pap-on-july-7> from the
    original on 15 August 2023. Retrieved 8 June 2023.
49. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-rfa_51-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    rfa_51-1> Han Yan, Goh; Ho, Grace (26 July 2023). "Tharman launches
    bid for presidency, cautions against 'artificial distinctions' based
    on past affiliations" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    politics/tharman-launches-bid-for-presidency-cautions-against-
    artificial-distinctions-based-on-past-affiliations>. /The Straits
    Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230727233320/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/tharman-launches-
    bid-for-presidency-cautions-against-artificial-distinctions-based-
    on-past-affiliations> from the original on 27 July 2023. Retrieved
    28 July 2023.
50. *^ <#cite_ref-52>* "Tharman applies for eligibility certificate for
    Presidential Election" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    tharman-shanmugaratnam-presidential-election-2023-eligibility-
    certificate-application-3682556>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230811064037/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/tharman-shanmugaratnam-presidential-election-2023-
    eligibility-certificate-application-3682556> from the original on 11
    August 2023. Retrieved 11 August 2023.
51. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:12_53-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    12_53-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:12_53-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-:12_53-3> "Ng
    Kok Song, Tan Kin Lian, Tharman Shanmugaratnam qualify as
    presidential candidates; George Goh ineligible" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/eld-presidental-election-2023-
    certificate-eligibility-candidates-3697306>. /CNA/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230818072149/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/eld-presidental-election-2023-
    certificate-eligibility-candidates-3697306> from the original on 18
    August 2023. Retrieved 18 August 2023.
52. *^ <#cite_ref-54>* "Leadership Team – Avanda" <https://
    www.avanda.sg/who-we-are/leadership-team/>. /avanda.sg/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230714112545/https://www.avanda.sg/
    who-we-are/leadership-team/> from the original on 14 July 2023.
    Retrieved 22 July 2023.
53. *^ <#cite_ref-55>* "Ng Kok Song – ASB Board of Governors" <https://
    asb.edu.my/about/board-of-governors/ng-kok-song>. /asb.edu.my/. 29
    March 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230721161916/
    https://asb.edu.my/about/board-of-governors/ng-kok-song> from the
    original on 21 July 2023. Retrieved 22 July 2023.
54. *^ <#cite_ref-56>* "Founding Futures – Singapore Exchange (SGX)"
    <https://www.sgx.com/founding-futures>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20210903064450/https://www.sgx.com/founding-
    futures> from the original on 3 September 2021. Retrieved 22 July 2023.
55. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:6_57-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:6_57-1>
    "Former GIC chief investment officer Ng Kok Song announces bid to
    run for President" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-
    kok-song-former-gic-chief-investment-officer-president-
    singapore-3631581>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230719040212/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-
    song-former-gic-chief-investment-officer-president-
    singapore-3631581> from the original on 19 July 2023. Retrieved 19
    July 2023.
56. *^ <#cite_ref-58>* "Ng Kok Song submits eligibility papers for
    Presidential Election, with former Cabinet minister George Yeo as
    character referee" <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/george-
    yeo-character-referee-ng-kok-song-presidential-election-
    assenter-2225871>. /TODAY/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230811064037/https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/george-yeo-
    character-referee-ng-kok-song-presidential-election-
    assenter-2225871> from the original on 11 August 2023. Retrieved 11
    August 2023.
57. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:14_59-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    14_59-1> "Forrmer candidate Tan Kin Lian applies for eligibility
    certificate for 2023 Presidential Election" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-submits-application-
    presidential-election-2023-3665716>. Channel NewsAsia. 31 July 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230807151736/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-submits-application-
    presidential-election-2023-3665716> from the original on 7 August
    2023. Retrieved 31 July 2023.
58. *^ <#cite_ref-60>* Goh, Yan Han (11 August 2023). "Tan Kin Lian,
    former NTUC Income chief executive, launches presidential bid"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-former-ntuc-
    income-chief-executive-launches-presidential-bid>. /The Straits
    Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230811051733/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-former-ntuc-
    income-chief-executive-launches-presidential-bid> from the original
    on 11 August 2023. Retrieved 11 August 2023.
59. *^ <#cite_ref-61>* "Tan Kin Lian says he will step aside if George
    Goh qualifies to run in Presidential Election" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-tan-
    kin-lian-step-aside-george-goh-3705896>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230817172535/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/presidential-election-2023-tan-kin-lian-step-aside-george-
    goh-3705896> from the original on 17 August 2023. Retrieved 17
    August 2023.
60. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:1_62-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:1_62-1>
    "Harvey Norman Ossia's founder George Goh to run for President in
    Singapore" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/george-goh-
    run-presidential-election-candidate-harvey-norman-ossia-3555876>.
    Channel NewsAsia. 12 June 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230612084332/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/george-
    goh-run-presidential-election-candidate-harvey-norman-ossia-3555876>
    from the original on 12 June 2023. Retrieved 12 June 2023.
61. *^ <#cite_ref-63>* "Press Statement" <https://onecms-
    res.cloudinary.com/raw/upload/v1686559961/mediacorp/tdy/document/
    2023-06/20230612_press_statement_george_goh.pdf> (PDF). /TODAY/.
    From The Desk of George Goh Ching Wah. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230612090306/https://onecms-
    res.cloudinary.com/raw/upload/v1686559961/mediacorp/tdy/document/
    2023-06/20230612_press_statement_george_goh.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on 12 June 2023. Retrieved 12 June 2023.
62. *^ <#cite_ref-64>* Zachariah, Natasha Ann (4 August 2023). "George
    Goh submits presidential election eligibility forms" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/george-goh-submits-
    presidential-election-eligibility-forms>. /The Straits Times/. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0585-3923>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230810114956/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/george-goh-submits-presidential-election-
    eligibility-forms> from the original on 10 August 2023. Retrieved 11
    August 2023.
63. *^ <#cite_ref-65>* https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/
    PEC%20statement_18%20Aug%202023.pdf <https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/
    2023/PEC%20statement_18%20Aug%202023.pdf>
64. *^ <#cite_ref-66>* "Lee Hsien Yang unlikely to meet criteria to run
    for elected presidency given court finding of lying under oath:
    Lawyers" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/lee-hsien-yang-
    elected-presidency-court-finding-lawyers-3323591>. Channel NewsAsia.
    4 March 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230324134255/
    https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/lee-hsien-yang-elected-
    presidency-court-finding-lawyers-3323591> from the original on 24
    March 2023. Retrieved 13 June 2023.
65. *^ <#cite_ref-67>* "Lee Hsien Yang weighing presidential bid,
    lawyers say court findings affect his eligibility" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/lee-hsien-yang-weighing-
    presidential-bid-lawyers-say-court-findings-affect-his-
    eligibility>. /The Straits Times/. 3 March 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230329190421/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/lee-hsien-yang-weighing-presidential-bid-lawyers-
    say-court-findings-affect-his-eligibility> from the original on 29
    March 2023. Retrieved 13 June 2023.
66. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:2_68-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:2_68-1>
    "Presidential Election 2023: Two hopefuls turn up on the day
    applications open" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    presidential-election-2023-two-hopefuls-turn-up-on-first-day-that-
    applications-open>. /The Straits Times/. 13 June 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230614220113/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-two-
    hopefuls-turn-up-on-first-day-that-applications-open> from the
    original on 14 June 2023. Retrieved 26 June 2023.
67. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:5_69-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:5_69-1>
    "PE2023: IT consultant says he's running for president, wants to be
    'SAF commander-in-chief' if he wins" <https://www.asiaone.com/
    singapore/pe-2023-it-consultant-says-hes-running-president-wants-be-
    saf-commander-chief-if-he-wins-teo-en-ming>. /AsiaOne/. 30 June
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230701040046/https://
    www.asiaone.com/singapore/pe-2023-it-consultant-says-hes-running-
    president-wants-be-saf-commander-chief-if-he-wins-teo-en-ming> from
    the original on 1 July 2023. Retrieved 1 July 2023.
68. *^ <#cite_ref-70>* Pan, Xiaojun (1 July 2023). "又有人表态要参选总统
    IT顾问领表格称要当"四军总司令"" <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230702025250/https://www.8world.com/singapore/pe2023-it-
    consultant-says-hes-running-president-2173931>. /8world 8视界新闻网/
    (in Chinese (Singapore)). Archived from the original <https://www.
    8world.com/singapore/pe2023-it-consultant-says-hes-running-
    president-2173931> on 2 July 2023. Retrieved 2 July 2023.
69. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:4_71-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:4_71-1>
    "'I have decided not to stand for re-election': President Halimah
    Yacob" <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/i-have-decided-not-
    stand-re-election-president-halimah-yacob-2181061>. /Today Online/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230529102812/https://
    www.todayonline.com/singapore/i-have-decided-not-stand-re-election-
    president-halimah-yacob-2181061> from the original on 29 May 2023.
    Retrieved 12 June 2023.
70. *^ <#cite_ref-yeo1_72-0>* Huang, Yupei; Xu Xiangyu (10 May 2011).
    "楊榮文宣佈不再參選 '不代表將退出政壇' (Translation: George Yeo
    Announces He Will Not Be Running For Office, [But] Does Not Mean
    He's Quitting Politics)" <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20110613033524/http://news.omy.sg/News/Local%2BNews/Story/
    OMYStory201105101524-243819.html>. /Lianhe Wanbao <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lianhe_Wanbao>/ (in Chinese). Archived from
    the original <http://news.omy.sg/News/Local%2BNews/Story/
    OMYStory201105101524-243819.html> on 13 June 2011. Retrieved 2 June
    2011.
71. *^ <#cite_ref-73>* Dai, Ong. (2 June 2011) "George Yeo for
    President?", /Today Online/, 2 June 2011 <http://
    www.todayonline.com/Singapore/EDC110602-0000059/George-Yeo-for-
    President> Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20110607003714/
    http://www.todayonline.com/Singapore/EDC110602-0000059/George-Yeo-
    for-President> 7 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>. Todayonline.com. Retrieved
    28 August 2011.
72. *^ <#cite_ref-:0_74-0>* "Former minister George Yeo says he will not
    run in next year's presidential election" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/former-minister-george-yeo-
    says-he-will-not-run-in-next-years-presidential-election>. /The
    Straits Times/. 11 August 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20220821081304/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    former-minister-george-yeo-says-he-will-not-run-in-next-years-
    presidential-election> from the original on 21 August 2022.
    Retrieved 13 June 2023.
73. *^ <#cite_ref-75>* "Kishore Mahbubani the 2nd senior S'porean
    diplomat to endorse Tharman for PE2023, after Tommy Koh" <https://
    mothership.sg/2023/08/kishore-mahbubani-endorse-tharman/>. /
    mothership.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230824213117/https://mothership.sg/2023/08/kishore-mahbubani-
    endorse-tharman/> from the original on 24 August 2023. Retrieved 27
    August 2023.
74. *^ <#cite_ref-76>* Lee, Loraine. "PM Lee says confident that Tharman
    will exercise President's duties 'scrupulously' and with
    'independence of mind' if elected" <https://www.todayonline.com/
    singapore/pm-lee-confident-tharman-president-duties-
    elected-2188856>. /TODAY/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230829045103/https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/pm-lee-
    confident-tharman-president-duties-elected-2188856> from the
    original on 29 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
75. *^ <#cite_ref-78>* "Tommy Koh endorses Tharman Shanmugaratnam for
    PE2023" <https://mothership.sg/2023/08/tommy-koh-endorsing-tharman-
    pe2023/>. /mothership.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230827081737/https://mothership.sg/2023/08/tommy-koh-endorsing-
    tharman-pe2023/> from the original on 27 August 2023. Retrieved 27
    August 2023.
76. *^ <#cite_ref-79>* Stolarchuk, Jewel (3 August 2023). "George Yeo
    backs Ng Kok Song's bid for presidency, amid scrutiny over "Tharman
    wants it" comment" <https://theindependent.sg/george-yeo-ng-kok-
    song-tharman>. /theindependent.sg/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230830140145/https://theindependent.sg/george-
    yeo-ng-kok-song-tharman/> from the original on 30 August 2023.
    Retrieved 30 August 2023.
77. *^ <#cite_ref-80>* "Chee Soon Juan 'not enthusiastic' about all 3
    presidential candidates but endorses Tan Kin Lian" <https://
    mothership.sg/2023/08/chee-soon-juan-endorses-tan-kin-lian/>. /
    mothership.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230830140145/https://mothership.sg/2023/08/chee-soon-juan-
    endorses-tan-kin-lian/> from the original on 30 August 2023.
    Retrieved 30 August 2023.
78. *^ <#cite_ref-82>* "Iris Koh (Healing the Divide) Endorses Tan Kin
    Lian: "I'm voting for Tan Kin Lian. He is our only hope for an
    Independent President, free from the PAP and GIC."" <https://
    www.reddit.com/r/singapore/comments/15w6i7j/
    iris_koh_healing_the_divide_endorses_tan_kin_lian/>. /r/singapore/.
    Reddit. 20 August 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230830141236/https://www.reddit.com/r/singapore/comments/15w6i7j/
    iris_koh_healing_the_divide_endorses_tan_kin_lian/?rdt=51724> from
    the original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
79. *^ <#cite_ref-83>* "Tan Kin Lian says support from opposition
    leaders does not politicise presidential election" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-says-support-from-
    opposition-leaders-does-not-politicise-presidential-election>. /The
    Straits Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230830141233/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/tan-
    kin-lian-says-support-from-opposition-leaders-does-not-politicise-
    presidential-election> from the original on 30 August 2023.
    Retrieved 30 August 2023.
80. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-DuoEndorse_84-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    DuoEndorse_84-1> "Tan Cheng Bock endorses Tan Kin Lian for S'pore
    presidential election 2023" <https://mothership.sg/2023/08/tan-
    cheng-bock-endorse-tan-kin-lian-pe2023/>. /mothership.sg/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230827081706/https://mothership.sg/
    2023/08/tan-cheng-bock-endorse-tan-kin-lian-pe2023/> from the
    original on 27 August 2023. Retrieved 27 August 2023.
81. *^ <#cite_ref-85>* "APPLICATION FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OPENS ON
    13 JUNE 2023" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/
    Press%20Release%20for%20Certificate%20of%20Eligibility%20and%20Community%20Certificate%20applications.pdf> (PDF). /Election Department Singapore/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230612045900/https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/Press%20Release%20for%20Certificate%20of%20Eligibility%20and%20Community%20Certificate%20applications.pdf> (PDF) from the original on 12 June 2023. Retrieved 12 June 2023.
82. *^ <#cite_ref-86>* Liew, Isabelle (3 August 2023). "Presidential
    hopeful Ng Kok Song submits forms, stresses importance of
    Singapore's reserves" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    politics/presidential-hopeful-ng-kok-song-submits-forms-stresses-
    importance-of-s-pore-s-reserves>. /The Straits Times/. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0585-3923>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230810115140/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/presidential-hopeful-ng-kok-song-submits-forms-
    stresses-importance-of-s-pore-s-reserves> from the original on 10
    August 2023. Retrieved 4 August 2023.
83. *^ <#cite_ref-87>* ZachariahCorrespondent, Natasha Ann (4 August
    2023). "George Goh submits presidential election eligibility forms"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/george-goh-submits-
    presidential-election-eligibility-forms>. /The Straits Times/. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0585-3923>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230804023949/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/george-goh-submits-presidential-election-
    eligibility-forms> from the original on 4 August 2023. Retrieved 4
    August 2023.
84. *^ <#cite_ref-88>* Grace Ho, ed. (7 August 2023). "Tharman
    Shanmugaratnam submits presidential election eligibility forms"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-submits-presidential-election-eligibility-forms>. /
    The Straits Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230808013213/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-submits-presidential-election-eligibility-forms> from
    the original on 8 August 2023. Retrieved 8 August 2023.
85. *^ <#cite_ref-89>* "Tan Kin Lian, former NTUC Income chief
    executive, launches presidential bid" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/tan-kin-lian-former-ntuc-income-chief-executive-launches-
    presidential-bid>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230811051733/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/tan-kin-lian-former-ntuc-income-chief-executive-launches-
    presidential-bid> from the original on 11 August 2023. Retrieved 11
    August 2023.
86. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:7_90-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:7_90-1>
    "Press Release, Presidential Election 2023" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/
    press/2023/PR%20on%20Presidential%20Election%202023.pdf> (PDF). /
    Elections Department/. Elections Department. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230811072024/https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/
    2023/PR%20on%20Presidential%20Election%202023.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on 11 August 2023. Retrieved 11 August 2023.
87. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:15_91-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    15_91-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:15_91-2> Correspondent, Goh Yan
    HanPolitical (18 August 2023). "Presidential hopefuls Ng Kok Song,
    Tharman Shanmugaratnam and Tan Kin Lian have received certificates
    of eligibility" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    presidential-hopefuls-tharman-and-tan-kin-lian-have-received-
    certificates-of-eligibility>. /The Straits Times/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230818040402/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/presidential-hopefuls-
    tharman-and-tan-kin-lian-have-received-certificates-of-eligibility>
    from the original on 18 August 2023. Retrieved 18 August 2023.
88. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:11_92-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    11_92-1> Goh, Yan Han (22 August 2023). "Ng Kok Song, Tharman, Tan
    Kin Lian officially in three-way race in presidential election"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/nomination-day-ng-
    kok-song-tharman-tan-kin-lian-officially-in-three-way-race-for-
    presidency>. /The Straits Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230822205252/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/nomination-day-ng-
    kok-song-tharman-tan-kin-lian-officially-in-three-way-race-for-
    presidency> from the original on 22 August 2023. Retrieved 22 August
    2023.
89. *^ <#cite_ref-93>* "Notice of Contested Presidential Election"
    <https://www.eld.gov.sg/gazettes/2023/
    Notice%20of%20Contested%20Presidential%20Election.pdf> (PDF).
    Elections Department Singapore. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230822113737/https://www.eld.gov.sg/gazettes/2023/
    Notice%20of%20Contested%20Presidential%20Election.pdf> (PDF) from
    the original on 22 August 2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
90. *^ <#cite_ref-94>* RaguramanCorrespondent, Anjali (30 August 2023).
    "Presidential election: No campaigning or election advertising on
    Cooling-off, Polling days" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    politics/presidential-election-no-campaigning-or-election-
    advertising-on-cooling-off-polling-days>. /The Straits Times/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230831010541/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/presidential-election-no-
    campaigning-or-election-advertising-on-cooling-off-polling-days>
    from the original on 31 August 2023. Retrieved 31 August 2023.
91. *^ <#cite_ref-95>* Correspondent, Goh Yan HanPolitical (2 September
    2023). "Landslide 70.4 per cent victory for Tharman as Singapore's
    next president" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    landslide-704-per-cent-victory-for-president-elect-tharman>. /The
    Straits Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230901175053/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/landslide-704-per-
    cent-victory-for-president-elect-tharman> from the original on 1
    September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
92. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Overseas_96-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    Overseas_96-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Overseas_96-2> "Tharman wins 76% of
    overseas votes cast in Singapore's Presidential Election" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-shanmugaratnam-singapore-
    presidential-election-overseas-votes-3763876>. /CNA/. Retrieved 12
    September 2023.
93. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-criteria_97-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    criteria_97-1> "Press release of Issuance of Certificate of
    Eligibity for Presidential Election 2023" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/
    press/2023/
    PR%20on%20Issuance%20of%20Certificate%20of%20Eligibility%20for%20PE2023.pdf> (PDF). /eld.gov.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230818092235/https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/PR%20on%20Issuance%20of%20Certificate%20of%20Eligibility%20for%20PE2023.pdf> (PDF) from the original on 18 August 2023. Retrieved 22 August 2023.
94. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:03_98-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    03_98-1> "Three Candidates Approved to Run in Singaporean
    Presidential Election" <https://thediplomat.com/2023/08/three-
    candidates-approved-to-run-in-singaporean-presidential-election/>. /
    thediplomat.com/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230821055101/https://thediplomat.com/2023/08/three-candidates-
    approved-to-run-in-singaporean-presidential-election/> from the
    original on 21 August 2023. Retrieved 22 August 2023.
95. *^ <#cite_ref-99>* "Interview with Ng Kok Song | Yale School of
    Management" <https://som.yale.edu/blog/interview-with-ng-kok-
    song>. /som.yale.edu/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230714091046/https://som.yale.edu/blog/interview-with-ng-kok-song>
    from the original on 14 July 2023. Retrieved 22 August 2023.
96. *^ <#cite_ref-100>* "Ng Kok Song, Tan Kin Lian, Tharman
    Shanmugaratnam qualify as presidential candidates; George Goh
    ineligible" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-
    presidental-election-2023-certificate-eligibility-
    candidates-3697306>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230822041006/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-
    presidental-election-2023-certificate-eligibility-
    candidates-3697306> from the original on 22 August 2023. Retrieved
    22 August 2023.
97. *^ <#cite_ref-101>* "Presidential candidates' symbols revealed:
    Palm, figures reaching up, & pineapple" <https://mothership.sg/
    2023/08/candidates-symbols-pe2023/>. /mothership.sg/. Retrieved 2
    September 2023.
98. *^ <#cite_ref-ELS_102-0>* "'We did consider durian as well': Tharman
    on using the pineapple as his presidential campaign logo" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-shanmugaratnam-campaign-
    pineapple-logo-posters-3718491>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230825222252/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/tharman-shanmugaratnam-campaign-pineapple-logo-
    posters-3718491> from the original on 25 August 2023. Retrieved 23
    August 2023.
99. *^ <#cite_ref-103>* "Presidential hopeful Ng Kok Song announces
    proposer, seconder and assenters" <https://www.businesstimes.com.sg/
    singapore/presidential-hopeful-ng-kok-song-announces-proposer-
    seconder-and-assenters>. /businesstimes.com.sg/. 21 August 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230824071538/https://
    www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/presidential-hopeful-ng-kok-song-
    announces-proposer-seconder-and-assenters> from the original on 24
    August 2023. Retrieved 28 August 2023.
100. *^ <#cite_ref-104>* "Tan Kin Lian refutes claims he is short of
    assenters, Tan Jee Say & Lim Tean among his 10 supporters" <https://
    mothership.sg/2023/08/tan-kin-lian-supporters/>. /mothership.sg/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230824071542/https://
    mothership.sg/2023/08/tan-kin-lian-supporters/> from the original on
    24 August 2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
101. *^ <#cite_ref-105>* "Ho Kwon Ping, Royston Tan & Muhd Alami Musa
    among S'poreans publicly supporting Tharman's presidential bid"
    <https://mothership.sg/2023/07/tharmans-supporters-assenters/>. /
    mothership.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230824071539/https://mothership.sg/2023/07/tharmans-supporters-
    assenters/> from the original on 24 August 2023. Retrieved 24 August
    2023.
102. *^ <#cite_ref-106>* "PE2023: Rallies not encouraged as they may be
    divisive, says ELD" <https://www.asiaone.com/singapore/pe2023-
    rallies-not-encouraged-they-may-be-divisive-says-eld>. /AsiaOne/. 12
    August 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230901055025/
    https://www.asiaone.com/singapore/pe2023-rallies-not-encouraged-
    they-may-be-divisive-says-eld> from the original on 1 September
    2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
103. *^ <#cite_ref-107>* Teng, Angela (30 August 2023). "How Much Can
    Candidates Spend On The Singapore Presidential Election And How Are
    Expenses Calculated" <https://dollarsandsense.sg/much-can-
    candidates-spend-singapore-presidential-election-expenses-
    calculated/>. /DollarsAndSense.sg/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230901055424/https://dollarsandsense.sg/much-
    can-candidates-spend-singapore-presidential-election-expenses-
    calculated/> from the original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1
    September 2023.
104. *^ <#cite_ref-108>* "Nomination Day as it happened: The race for the
    Singapore presidency officially begins" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/nomination-day-singapore-
    presidential-election-live-3704936>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230823071908/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/nomination-day-singapore-presidential-election-
    live-3704936> from the original on 23 August 2023. Retrieved 23
    August 2023.
105. *^ <#cite_ref-109>* "Ng Kok Song urges voters to pick him as
    President for his experience with Singapore's reserves, political
    neutrality" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-
    presidential-election-candidate-speech-reserves-political-
    neutrality-3715276>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230822090758/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-
    song-presidential-election-candidate-speech-reserves-political-
    neutrality-3715276> from the original on 22 August 2023. Retrieved
    23 August 2023.
106. *^ <#cite_ref-110>* "Tharman looking forward to 'fair, dignified,
    honourable' contest in Presidential Election" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-candidate-nomination-day-
    speech-supporters-3715266>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230822222627/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/tharman-candidate-nomination-day-speech-
    supporters-3715266> from the original on 22 August 2023. Retrieved
    23 August 2023.
107. *^ <#cite_ref-111>* "I want to give Singaporeans a chance to vote
    for a 'truly independent' president: Tan Kin Lian" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-presidential-
    candidate-nomination-day-speech-supporters-3715286>. /CNA/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230822222627/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-presidential-
    candidate-nomination-day-speech-supporters-3715286> from the
    original on 22 August 2023. Retrieved 23 August 2023.
108. *^ <#cite_ref-112>* Abdullah, Zhaki (21 August 2023). "Tan Kin Lian
    addresses criticisms over Facebook posts on 'pretty girls'"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/tan-kin-lian-
    addresses-concerns-about-facebook-posts-on-pretty-girls>. /The
    Straits Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230822224803/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/tan-
    kin-lian-addresses-concerns-about-facebook-posts-on-pretty-girls>
    from the original on 22 August 2023. Retrieved 23 August 2023.
109. *^ <#cite_ref-113>* "Tan Kin Lian apologises to those who feel
    'uncomfortable' over his 'pretty girls' social media posts"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-apologises-
    pretty-girls-social-media-posts-3715931>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230825130936/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/tan-kin-lian-apologises-pretty-girls-social-media-
    posts-3715931> from the original on 25 August 2023. Retrieved 23
    August 2023.
110. *^ <#cite_ref-114>* "No posters, banners for Ng Kok Song's campaign
    due to 'limited resources', sustainable reasons" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-ng-kok-
    song-posters-banners-environmentally-friendly-lack-
    resources-3718126>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230823133512/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    presidential-election-2023-ng-kok-song-posters-banners-
    environmentally-friendly-lack-resources-3718126> from the original
    on 23 August 2023. Retrieved 23 August 2023.
111. *^ <#cite_ref-115>* Iau, Jean (22 August 2023). "Presidential
    candidate Ng Kok Song begins campaign trail at site of childhood
    kampung home" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    presidential-candidate-ng-kok-song-begins-campaign-trail-at-site-of-
    childhood-kampung-home>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230822224321/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/presidential-candidate-ng-kok-song-begins-
    campaign-trail-at-site-of-childhood-kampung-home> from the original
    on 22 August 2023. Retrieved 23 August 2023.
112. *^ <#cite_ref-116>* "Ng Kok Song: The boy from a fishing village who
    wants to be a 'politically independent' President" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-president-
    election-3712651>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230825095046/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-
    song-president-election-3712651> from the original on 25 August
    2023. Retrieved 23 August 2023.
113. *^ <#cite_ref-117>* "Ng Kok Song warns against President-PM
    relationship that is 'too close'; difficult to carry out duties
    objectively" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-
    president-prime-minister-pm-relationship-presidential-
    election-3720676>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230824144641/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-
    song-president-prime-minister-pm-relationship-presidential-
    election-3720676> from the original on 24 August 2023. Retrieved 24
    August 2023.
114. *^ <#cite_ref-118>* "Police issue permit for election meeting by
    presidential candidate Tharman Shanmugaratnam" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/police-permit-issued-tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-presidential-candidate-election-meeting-town-
    hall-3721776>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230824144109/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/police-
    permit-issued-tharman-shanmugaratnam-presidential-candidate-
    election-meeting-town-hall-3721776> from the original on 24 August
    2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
115. *^ <#cite_ref-119>* "With 3 days of Presidential Election
    campaigning left, Tan Kin Lian cancels remaining walkabouts"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-cancel-
    walkabout-presidential-election-campaign-3729316>. /CNA/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230828083630/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-cancel-walkabout-
    presidential-election-campaign-3729316> from the original on 28
    August 2023. Retrieved 28 August 2023.
116. *^ <#cite_ref-120>* "PE 2023: Analysts say opposition backing, '3-
    in-1 presidents' claim cast doubt over Tan Kin Lian's independence"
    <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/pe-2023-tan-kin-lian-
    independent-doubt-analysts-2242211>. /TODAY/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230829040255/https://www.todayonline.com/
    singapore/pe-2023-tan-kin-lian-independent-doubt-analysts-2242211>
    from the original on 29 August 2023. Retrieved 29 August 2023.
117. *^ <#cite_ref-121>* Correspondent, Chin Soo FangSenior (30 August
    2023). "'One vote, three presidents' sticker unauthorised and
    removed: ELD" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/one-vote-
    three-presidents-sticker-unauthorised-and-removed-eld>. /The Straits
    Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230831070729/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/one-vote-three-presidents-
    sticker-unauthorised-and-removed-eld> from the original on 31 August
    2023. Retrieved 31 August 2023.
118. *^ <#cite_ref-122>* Lau, Jean (28 August 2023). "Ng Kok Song
    questions Tan Kin Lian's independence after Tan Cheng Bock
    endorsement" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/ng-
    kok-song-questions-tan-kin-lian-s-independence-after-tan-cheng-bock-
    endorsement>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230830024508/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/ng-kok-song-questions-tan-kin-lian-s-
    independence-after-tan-cheng-bock-endorsement> from the original on
    30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
119. *^ <#cite_ref-123>* Ong Guang-Xi, Justin. "Opposition members'
    endorsement of Tan Kin Lian polarises voters by politicising
    Presidential Election: Ng Kok Song" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-ng-kok-song-
    opposition-members-endorsing-tan-kin-lian-polarise-singaporeans-
    politicise-3727801>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230828082729/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    presidential-election-ng-kok-song-opposition-members-endorsing-tan-
    kin-lian-polarise-singaporeans-politicise-3727801> from the original
    on 28 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
120. *^ <#cite_ref-124>* "PSP says it won't endorse any presidential
    candidate after volunteers receive email to sign up as counting
    agents" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-
    election-psp-does-not-endorse-any-candidate-email-volunteers-tan-
    kin-lian-3731416>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230829053650/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    presidential-election-psp-does-not-endorse-any-candidate-email-
    volunteers-tan-kin-lian-3731416> from the original on 29 August
    2023. Retrieved 29 August 2023.
121. *^ <#cite_ref-125>* "PE 2023: PSP assures concerned members it's
    'personal choice' for founder Tan Cheng Bock to back Tan Kin Lian"
    <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/pe-2023-psp-assures-members-
    tan-cheng-bock-tan-kin-lian-2243006?
    cid=internal_inarticlelinks_web_29082023_tdy>. /TODAY/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230829161951/https://
    www.todayonline.com/singapore/pe-2023-psp-assures-members-tan-cheng-
    bock-tan-kin-lian-2243006?
    cid=internal_inarticlelinks_web_29082023_tdy> from the original on
    29 August 2023. Retrieved 29 August 2023.
122. *^ <#cite_ref-126>* "Singaporeans do not want a President who is
    'manipulated' by political parties: Ng Kok Song" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-ng-kok-song-
    singaporeans-dont-want-president-manipulated-political-
    parties-3731621>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230829083851/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    presidential-election-ng-kok-song-singaporeans-dont-want-president-
    manipulated-political-parties-3731621> from the original on 29
    August 2023. Retrieved 29 August 2023.
123. *^ <#cite_ref-127>* "Tharman says Ng Kok Song misquoted him & calls
    'increasingly sweeping statements' worrying" <https://mothership.sg/
    2023/08/tharman-misquoted-partisan/>. /mothership.sg/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830030922/https://mothership.sg/
    2023/08/tharman-misquoted-partisan/> from the original on 30 August
    2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
124. *^ <#cite_ref-128>* "Police called after man disrupts Ng Kok Song's
    Clementi walkabout, shouting profanities" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-walkabout-disrupted-
    man-bicycle-clementi-central-3732521>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230829145255/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/ng-kok-song-walkabout-disrupted-man-bicycle-clementi-
    central-3732521> from the original on 29 August 2023. Retrieved 29
    August 2023.
125. *^ <#cite_ref-129>* Begum, Shabana (30 August 2023). "Man who
    disrupted Ng Kok Song's walkabout taken to IMH, police assessed he
    posed danger to himself" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    man-who-disrupted-ng-kok-song-s-walkabout-taken-to-imh-after-police-
    assessed-he-posed-danger-to-himself>. /The Straits Times/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830141237/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/man-who-disrupted-ng-kok-song-s-
    walkabout-taken-to-imh-after-police-assessed-he-posed-danger-to-
    himself> from the original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
126. *^ <#cite_ref-130>* "Lim Tean seeks to adjourn trial, dismisses
    lawyer & says he's busy with PE2023" <https://mothership.sg/2023/08/
    lim-tean-push-trial-fires-lawyer-busy-with-pe/>. /mothership.sg/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830000316/https://
    mothership.sg/2023/08/lim-tean-push-trial-fires-lawyer-busy-with-pe/
    > from the original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
127. *^ <#cite_ref-131>* Correspondent, Shaffiq AlkhatibCourt (29 August
    2023). "Lim Tean seeks trial adjournment after discharging lawyer,
    says he's busy with presidential campaign" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/courts-crime/lawyer-lim-tean-who-is-
    accused-of-multiple-offences-asks-for-trial-to-be-adjourned>. /The
    Straits Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230830014704/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/courts-crime/
    lawyer-lim-tean-who-is-accused-of-multiple-offences-asks-for-trial-
    to-be-adjourned> from the original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 30
    August 2023.
128. *^ <#cite_ref-132>* "M Ravi Files Supreme Court Application
    Declaring Tharman Unfit For Presidency, Cites Prior Conviction"
    <https://mustsharenews.com/m-ravi-tharman-presidency/>. /Must Share
    News – Independent News For Singaporeans/. 30 August 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230831141101/https://
    mustsharenews.com/m-ravi-tharman-presidency/> from the original on
    31 August 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
129. *^ <#cite_ref-133>* Ang, Matthias (1 September 2023). "High Court
    dismisses M Ravi's application to disqualify Tharman from PE2023,
    orders him to pay S$6,000 costs" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/m-
    ravi-disqualify/>. /Mothership/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
130. *^ <#cite_ref-134>* Yufeng, Kok (30 August 2023). "Workers' Party
    does not endorse any presidential candidate; reiterates objection to
    elected post" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    workers-party-not-endorsing-any-presidential-candidate-reiterates-
    objection-to-elected-post>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230830141237/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/workers-party-not-endorsing-any-presidential-
    candidate-reiterates-objection-to-elected-post> from the original on
    30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
131. *^ <#cite_ref-135>* "Workers' Party not endorsing any candidate in
    presidential election" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    workers-party-endorsement-presidential-election-candidate-
    qualifying-criteria-3733941>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230830131030/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/workers-party-endorsement-presidential-election-candidate-
    qualifying-criteria-3733941> from the original on 30 August 2023.
    Retrieved 30 August 2023.
132. *^ <#cite_ref-136>* "No conflict of interest between Tharman's
    candidacy and his son's Finance Ministry role: MOF, PSC" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-son-finance-ministry-no-
    conflict-interest-presidential-election-3734911>. /CNA/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230831011043/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-son-finance-ministry-no-
    conflict-interest-presidential-election-3734911> from the original
    on 31 August 2023. Retrieved 31 August 2023.
133. *^ <#cite_ref-137>* Correspondent, Goh Yan HanPolitical (30 August
    2023). "Presidential candidates out and about on final day of
    hustings; second broadcast aired" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/presidential-candidates-out-and-about-on-final-
    day-of-hustings-second-broadcast-aired>. /The Straits Times/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230831011356/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/presidential-candidates-out-
    and-about-on-final-day-of-hustings-second-broadcast-aired> from the
    original on 31 August 2023. Retrieved 31 August 2023.
134. *^ <#cite_ref-138>* YingCorrespondent, Lee Li (30 August 2023). "Ng
    Kok Song resumes walkabouts, beefs up security after heckling
    incident" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/ng-kok-
    song-resumes-walkabouts-beefs-up-security-after-heckling-
    incident>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230831041650/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    ng-kok-song-resumes-walkabouts-beefs-up-security-after-heckling-
    incident> from the original on 31 August 2023. Retrieved 31 August 2023.
135. *^ <#cite_ref-139>* TanCorrespondent, Judith (30 August 2023). "Tan
    Kin Lian says support from opposition leaders does not politicise
    presidential election" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    politics/tan-kin-lian-says-support-from-opposition-leaders-does-not-
    politicise-presidential-election>. /The Straits Times/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230831041650/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/tan-kin-lian-says-support-
    from-opposition-leaders-does-not-politicise-presidential-election>
    from the original on 31 August 2023. Retrieved 31 August 2023.
136. *^ <#cite_ref-140>* Shafeeq, Syarafana (30 August 2023). "Tharman
    stresses growing role of presidency, hopes S'poreans remember
    individual track records" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    politics/tharman-stresses-growing-role-of-presidency-hopes-s-
    poreans-remember-individual-track-records>. /The Straits Times/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230831011750/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/tharman-stresses-growing-
    role-of-presidency-hopes-s-poreans-remember-individual-track-
    records> from the original on 31 August 2023. Retrieved 31 August 2023.
137. *^ <#cite_ref-141>* Correspondent, Goh Yan HanPolitical (23 August
    2023). "Presidential candidate broadcasts to air on Aug 24 and Aug
    30 evenings" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    presidential-candidate-broadcasts-to-air-on-aug-24-and-30-
    evenings>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230824002537/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/
    presidential-candidate-broadcasts-to-air-on-aug-24-and-30-evenings>
    from the original on 24 August 2023. Retrieved 23 August 2023.
138. *^ <#cite_ref-142>* "'Ownself check ownself', diversity of views,
    not just scholars for top jobs: Ng Kok Song, Tharman and Tan Kin
    Lian deliver PCB speeches" <https://www.asiaone.com/singapore/ng-
    kok-song-tharman-tan-kin-lian-presidential-candidate-broadcast-
    election>. /AsiaOne/. 24 August 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230824143820/https://www.asiaone.com/
    singapore/ng-kok-song-tharman-tan-kin-lian-presidential-candidate-
    broadcast-election> from the original on 24 August 2023. Retrieved
    24 August 2023.
139. *^ <#cite_ref-143>* "Watch: Singapore presidential candidate
    broadcast" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/watch-
    presidential-candidate-broadcast-election-tv-cna-3718426>. /CNA/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230824143819/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/watch-presidential-candidate-
    broadcast-election-tv-cna-3718426> from the original on 24 August
    2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
140. *^ <#cite_ref-144>* "The time has come for a non-partisan President,
    says Ng Kok Song in presidential candidate broadcast" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-presidential-
    candidate-broadcast-time-non-partisan-president-3721061>. /CNA/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230824143821/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-presidential-
    candidate-broadcast-time-non-partisan-president-3721061> from the
    original on 24 August 2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
141. *^ <#cite_ref-145>* "In presidential candidate broadcast, Tharman
    vows to bring 'independence of mind' as President" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-
    tharman-shanmugaratnam-broadcast-message-3720281>. /CNA/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230824143819/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-
    tharman-shanmugaratnam-broadcast-message-3720281> from the original
    on 24 August 2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
142. *^ <#cite_ref-146>* "Vital to have different types of people in
    public service, not just scholars: Tan Kin Lian in presidential
    candidate broadcast" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-
    kin-lian-presidential-candidate-broadcast-public-service-different-
    people-scholars-3721046>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230824143822/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-
    kin-lian-presidential-candidate-broadcast-public-service-different-
    people-scholars-3721046> from the original on 24 August 2023.
    Retrieved 24 August 2023.
143. *^ <#cite_ref-147>* "Tan Kin Lian takes issue with edits to
    broadcast speech; IMDA, ELD cite 'inaccuracies' on President's role"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-imda-eld-
    president-role-inaccuracies-remove-3721546>. /CNA/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230824145209/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-imda-eld-president-
    role-inaccuracies-remove-3721546> from the original on 24 August
    2023. Retrieved 24 August 2023.
144. *^ <#cite_ref-148>* "Watch: Singapore presidential candidates make
    pitch for votes in televised forum" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-presidential-election-
    forum-candidates-watch-live-3724341>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230828165154/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/singapore-presidential-election-forum-candidates-watch-
    live-3724341> from the original on 28 August 2023. Retrieved 28
    August 2023.
145. *^ <#cite_ref-149>* "Looking at candidates' political ties
    'simplistic', rules out even senior civil servants, says Tharman in
    presidential forum" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    president-election-forum-political-ties-ng-kok-song-tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-tan-kin-lian-3730021>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230829000522/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/president-election-forum-political-ties-ng-kok-song-
    tharman-shanmugaratnam-tan-kin-lian-3730021> from the original on 29
    August 2023. Retrieved 29 August 2023.
146. *^ <#cite_ref-150>* "Watch: Second Singapore presidential candidate
    broadcast" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/watch-
    presidential-candidate-broadcast-second-election-tv-cna-3731226>. /
    CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830141239/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/watch-presidential-candidate-
    broadcast-second-election-tv-cna-3731226> from the original on 30
    August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
147. *^ <#cite_ref-151>* "No executive authority but I can use 'soft
    influence', says Tan Kin Lian in final presidential candidate
    broadcast" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-
    presidential-candidate-broadcast-soft-influence-3734196>. /CNA/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830130959/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-presidential-
    candidate-broadcast-soft-influence-3734196> from the original on 30
    August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
148. *^ <#cite_ref-152>* "In final presidential candidate broadcast,
    Tharman points to track record of working on the ground in Jurong"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-final-
    presidential-candidate-broadcast-people-all-backgrounds-3734271>. /
    CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830130938/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-final-presidential-
    candidate-broadcast-people-all-backgrounds-3734271> from the
    original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
149. *^ <#cite_ref-153>* "'No longer a remote possibility' for Singapore
    to have 'wrong team' in charge: Ng Kok Song in final broadcast"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-final-
    broadcast-speech-wrong-team-remote-possibility-3734116>. /CNA/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830141302/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-final-broadcast-
    speech-wrong-team-remote-possibility-3734116> from the original on
    30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
150. *^ <#cite_ref-154>* /Ng Kok Song: The Man Who Built Singapore's
    National Reserves | TDK Podcast #234/ <https://www.youtube.com/
    watch?v=boNXbaRpFPw>, archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230827230518/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=boNXbaRpFPw> from the
    original on 27 August 2023, retrieved 28 August 2023
151. *^ <#cite_ref-155>* /PE2023 FULL Interview with Tan Kin Lian |
    Political Prude Ep 4/ <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L6lVGmgghg8>,
    archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230827024036/https://
    www.youtube.com/watch?v=L6lVGmgghg8&gl=US&hl=en> from the original
    on 27 August 2023, retrieved 28 August 2023
152. *^ <#cite_ref-156>* /PE2023 FULL Interview with Tharman
    Shanmugaratnam | Political Prude Ep 2/ <https://www.youtube.com/
    watch?v=qTxFjdKKA-g>, archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230827024036/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qTxFjdKKA-
    g&gl=US&hl=en> from the original on 27 August 2023, retrieved 28
    August 2023
153. *^ <#cite_ref-157>* /PE2023 FULL Interview with Ng Kok Song |
    Political Prude Ep 5/ <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PotJyfXPeRE>,
    archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230827024035/https://
    www.youtube.com/watch?v=PotJyfXPeRE> from the original on 27 August
    2023, retrieved 28 August 2023
154. *^ <#cite_ref-158>* "Ng Kok Song: The boy from a fishing village who
    wants to be a 'politically independent' President" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-song-president-
    election-3712651>. /CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230825095046/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/ng-kok-
    song-president-election-3712651> from the original on 25 August
    2023. Retrieved 28 August 2023.
155. *^ <#cite_ref-159>* "Tharman believes S'pore is ready for a non-
    Chinese PM" <https://www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/tharman-
    believes-spore-ready-non-chinese-pm>. /businesstimes.com.sg/. 26
    August 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230827024039/
    https://www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/tharman-believes-spore-
    ready-non-chinese-pm> from the original on 27 August 2023. Retrieved
    28 August 2023.
156. *^ <#cite_ref-160>* Ying, Lee Li; Begum, Shabana (26 August 2023).
    "Trust and sincerity key to voters' hearts: Ng Kok Song" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/trust-and-sincerity-key-to-voters-
    hearts-ng-kok-song>. /The Straits Times/. ISSN <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://
    www.worldcat.org/issn/0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230830141849/https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/trust-and-
    sincerity-key-to-voters-hearts-ng-kok-song> from the original on 30
    August 2023. Retrieved 28 August 2023.
157. *^ <#cite_ref-161>* "Tharman Shanmugaratnam: The student activist
    who wants to bring his 'practical idealism' to the presidency"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-
    election-2023-tharman-shanmugaratnam-president-interview-3712791>. /
    CNA/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830141310/https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-
    tharman-shanmugaratnam-president-interview-3712791> from the
    original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 28 August 2023.
158. *^ <#cite_ref-162>* /Tan Kin Lian's FAMILY Didn't Want Him To Run
    For President??? | TDK Podcast No. 236/ <https://www.youtube.com/
    watch?v=qZa4ClayLoY>, archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230827024036/https://www.youtube.com/watch?
    v=qZa4ClayLoY&gl=US&hl=en> from the original on 27 August 2023,
    retrieved 28 August 2023
159. *^ <#cite_ref-163>* Tan, Judith (26 August 2023). "Singapore should
    return to having Parliament appoint president: Tan Kin Lian"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/singapore-should-
    return-to-having-parliament-appoint-president-tan-kin-lian>. /The
    Straits Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830141801/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/singapore-should-
    return-to-having-parliament-appoint-president-tan-kin-lian> from the
    original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 28 August 2023.
160. *^ <#cite_ref-164>* "Tan Kin Lian: From leaving school and
    supporting his family to representing 'ordinary people'" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-presidential-
    candidate-ntuc-income-chief-3713406>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230827024038/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/tan-kin-lian-presidential-candidate-ntuc-income-
    chief-3713406> from the original on 27 August 2023. Retrieved 28
    August 2023.
161. *^ <#cite_ref-165>* Yuen-C, Tham (27 August 2023). "Mental health,
    corruption among issues raised by youth in ST's Ask The Next
    President Anything show" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    politics/mental-health-corruption-among-issues-raised-by-youth-in-
    st-s-ask-the-next-president-anything-show>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230830141800/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/mental-health-corruption-among-issues-raised-by-
    youth-in-st-s-ask-the-next-president-anything-show> from the
    original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
162. *^ <#cite_ref-166>* Yeo, Renald. "Presidential candidates pitch
    strengths, ideas in televised forum" <https://
    www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/economy-policy/presidential-
    candidates-pitch-strengths-ideas-televised-forum>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830141759/https://
    www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/economy-policy/presidential-
    candidates-pitch-strengths-ideas-televised-forum> from the original
    on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
163. *^ <#cite_ref-167>* /Tharman Shanmugaratnam CONFRONTS His PAP Past?
    | TDK Podcast No. 238/ <https://www.youtube.com/watch?
    v=HXmDPOYjD8I>, retrieved 1 September 2023
164. *^ <#cite_ref-Expenditure_168-0>* "President Tharman spent over
    S$700,000 on election campaign, highest among candidates" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-spending-
    tharman-700000-ng-kok-song-tan-kin-lian-3860321>. /CNA/. Retrieved
    31 October 2023.
165. *^ <#cite_ref-169>* "Who spent what: 5 things we learnt from the
    expense filings of the Presidential Election candidates" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-presidential-election-
    eld-expense-report-tharman-ng-kok-song-tan-kin-lian-3860806>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 31 October 2023.
166. *^ <#cite_ref-170>* "President Halimah Yacob spent more than
    S$220,000 on election campaign" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/president-halimah-yacob-spent-more-s220000-election-
    campaign-993446>. /CNA/. Retrieved 31 October 2023.
167. *^ <#cite_ref-171>* "Who spent what: 5 things we learnt from the
    expense filings of the Presidential Election candidates" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-presidential-election-
    eld-expense-report-tharman-ng-kok-song-tan-kin-lian-3860806>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 4 November 2023.
168. *^ <#cite_ref-172>* "President Tharman spent over S$700,000 on
    election campaign, highest among candidates" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-spending-
    tharman-700000-ng-kok-song-tan-kin-lian-3860321>. /CNA/. Retrieved 4
    November 2023.
169. *^ <#cite_ref-173>* "Police reports filed against Iris Koh, M Ravi
    for potentially breaking Presidential Election cooling-off rules"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/iris-koh-m-ravi-
    presidential-election-cooling-period-police-3813681>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 31 October 2023.
170. *^ <#cite_ref-174>* Correspondent, Goh Yan HanPolitical (1 September
    2023). "When will the sample count for presidential election be
    announced? How does it work?" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/askst-how-does-the-sample-count-for-the-
    presidential-election-work>. /The Straits Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230901103041/https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/askst-how-does-the-sample-count-for-the-
    presidential-election-work> from the original on 1 September 2023.
    Retrieved 1 September 2023.
171. *^ <#cite_ref-175>* "CNA Explains: Sample counts, invalid votes and
    recounts – what you need to know about PE2023 Polling Day" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-vote-
    counting-recounts-polling-day-3734416>. /CNA/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230831004506/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/presidential-election-vote-counting-recounts-polling-
    day-3734416> from the original on 31 August 2023. Retrieved 31
    August 2023.
172. *^ <#cite_ref-176>* "eld.gov.sg" <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20150926155923/http://www.eld.gov.sg/mediarelease/
    ELD_SampleCount_1Sep.pdf> (PDF). Archived from the original <http://
    www.eld.gov.sg/mediarelease/ELD_SampleCount_1Sep.pdf> (PDF) on 26
    September 2015. Retrieved 12 September 2015.
173. *^ <#cite_ref-177>* "GUIDE FOR COUNTING AGENTS FOR GENERAL ELECTION
    2020" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/pdf/GE2020/
    Guide_for_Counting_Agents_for_General_Election_2020.pdf> (PDF). /
    elections department/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20200708122355/https://www.eld.gov.sg/pdf/GE2020/
    Guide_for_Counting_Agents_for_General_Election_2020.pdf> (PDF) from
    the original on 8 July 2020. Retrieved 1 July 2020.
174. *^ <#cite_ref-178>* "PE2023: Woman in t-shirt printed with some 100
    pineapples apparently turned away from polling station" <https://
    mothership.sg/2023/09/pe2023-pineapple-t-shirt/>. /mothership.sg/.
    Retrieved 2 September 2023.
175. *^ <#cite_ref-179>* "ELD | Do's and Don'ts of Voting" <https://
    www.eld.gov.sg/voters_dosdonts.html>. /www.eld.gov.sg/. Retrieved 2
    September 2023.
176. *^ <#cite_ref-180>* "74% of eligible S'poreans cast votes in PE2023
    as of 3pm" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/voter-turnout-pe2023-3pm/
    >. /mothership.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230901081518/https://mothership.sg/2023/09/voter-turnout-
    pe2023-3pm/> from the original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1
    September 2023.
177. *^ <#cite_ref-181>* "85% of eligible S'poreans cast votes in PE2023
    as of 5pm" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/voter-turnout-pe2023-5pm/
    >. /mothership.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230902014743/https://mothership.sg/2023/09/voter-turnout-
    pe2023-5pm/> from the original on 2 September 2023. Retrieved 1
    September 2023.
178. *^ <#cite_ref-182>* "Singapore presidential poll: counting begins in
    vote seen as test of PAP support" <https://www.scmp.com/week-asia/
    politics/article/3233151/singapore-presidential-poll-counting-
    begins-vote-viewed-test-pap-support>. /South China Morning Post/. 1
    September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230901121635/https://www.scmp.com/week-asia/politics/article/
    3233151/singapore-presidential-poll-counting-begins-vote-viewed-
    test-pap-support> from the original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1
    September 2023.
179. *^ <#cite_ref-183>* "PE2023 sample count: Tharman tentatively
    victorious with 70% of votes" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/pe2023-
    sample-count/>. /mothership.sg/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230901162114/https://mothership.sg/2023/09/pe2023-sample-
    count/> from the original on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September
    2023.
180. *^ <#cite_ref-184>* "PE 2023: Ng Kok Song concedes defeat to Tharman
    after 'clear result' in sample count" <https://www.todayonline.com/
    singapore/pe-2023-ng-kok-song-concedes-defeat-tharman-after-clear-
    result-sample-count-2245601>. /TODAY/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230901155819/https://www.todayonline.com/
    singapore/pe-2023-ng-kok-song-concedes-defeat-tharman-after-clear-
    result-sample-count-2245601> from the original on 1 September 2023.
    Retrieved 1 September 2023.
181. *^ <#cite_ref-185>* "PE 2023: Tan Kin Lian doesn't concede defeat
    after sample count, but congratulates Tharman for 'success in
    contest'" <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/pe-2023-tan-kin-
    lian-not-ready-concede-defeat-sample-count-tharman-2245611>. /
    TODAY/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230901155818/
    https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/pe-2023-tan-kin-lian-not-
    ready-concede-defeat-sample-count-tharman-2245611> from the original
    on 1 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
182. *^ <#cite_ref-186>* Iau, Jean (18 September 2023). "2 in 5 postal
    votes for presidential election that arrived on time disallowed for
    counting: ELD" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/2-in-5-
    postal-votes-for-presidential-election-that-arrived-on-time-
    disallowed-for-counting-eld>. /The Straits Times/. Retrieved 26
    September 2023.
183. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Overseas_ELD_187-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Overseas_ELD_187-1> "PRESS RELEASE TOTAL VOTES CAST FOR
    PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION 2023" <https://www.eld.gov.sg/press/2023/
    PR%20on%20Total%20Votes%20Cast%20for%20PE2023.pdf> (PDF). Retrieved
    12 September 2023.
184. *^ <#cite_ref-188>* Oh, Tessa (2 September 2023). "Tharman
    Shanmugaratnam elected as Singapore's 9th president in 70.4%
    landslide" <https://www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-elected-singapores-9th-president-704-landslide>. /
    Business Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230902014744/https://www.businesstimes.com.sg/singapore/tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-elected-singapores-9th-president-704-landslide> from
    the original on 2 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
185. *^ <#cite_ref-189>* Hamzah, Aqil (2 September 2023). "Presidential
    Election 2023: More than 2.7 million eligible to vote" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-more-
    than-27-million-eligible-to-vote>. /The Straits Times/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230830140253/https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/presidential-election-2023-more-
    than-27-million-eligible-to-vote> from the original on 30 August
    2023. Retrieved 18 August 2023.
186. *^ <#cite_ref-190>* Shafeeq, Syarafana (2 September 2023). "PM Lee
    congratulates Tharman on winning presidency by 'decisive margin'"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/pm-lee-
    congratulates-tharman-on-winning-presidency-by-decisive-margin>. /
    The Straits Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0585-3923>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230902014817/
    https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/pm-lee-
    congratulates-tharman-on-winning-presidency-by-decisive-margin> from
    the original on 2 September 2023. Retrieved 1 September 2023.
187. *^ <#cite_ref-191>* "Lawrence Wong congratulates Tharman on victory,
    calls it a 'vote of confidence in S'pore's future'" <https://
    mothership.sg/2023/09/lawrence-wong-tharman/>. /mothership.sg/.
    Retrieved 12 September 2023.
188. *^ <#cite_ref-192>* "Ho Ching congratulates Tharman on 'clear
    mandate'" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/ho-ching-congratulates-
    tharman/>. /mothership.sg/. Retrieved 3 September 2023.
189. *^ <#cite_ref-193>* "Lee Hsien Yang congratulates President-elect
    Tharman, says the latter needs to be the independent president he
    said he would be, and speak truth to power – Singapore News"
    <https://theindependent.sg/lee-hsien-yang-congratulates-president-
    elect-tharman/>. /The Independent Singapore News/. 4 September 2023.
    Retrieved 6 September 2023.
190. *^ <#cite_ref-194>* Iau, Jean; Begum, Shabana; Tan, Cheryl (2
    September 2023). "Ng Kok Song says he achieved 'No. 1 goal' of
    giving S'poreans chance to vote" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/ng-kok-song-concedes-presidential-election-says-
    he-achieved-goal-of-giving-s-poreans-chance-to-vote>. /The Straits
    Times/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
191. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:19_195-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    19_195-1> Fang, Chin Soo; Devaraj, Samuel (2 September 2023). "Tan
    Kin Lian says he will take things easy, spend more time with
    grandkids after conceding defeat" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/tan-kin-lian-will-heed-family-s-advice-to-take-
    things-easy-spend-more-time-with-grandchildren>. /The Straits
    Times/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
192. *^ <#cite_ref-196>* "Pritam Singh Wishes Tharman Success, Reiterates
    WP's Views On Shortcomings Of Elected Presidency" <https://
    mustsharenews.com/pritam-singh-tharman/>. /Must Share News –
    Independent News For Singaporeans/. 3 September 2023. Retrieved 3
    September 2023.
193. *^ <#cite_ref-197>* "Tan Cheng Bock Congratulates Tharman, Says He's
    A Good Man With 'High Levels' Of Competence" <https://
    mustsharenews.com/tan-cheng-bock-congratulates-tharman/>. /Must
    Share News – Independent News For Singaporeans/. 3 September 2023.
    Retrieved 3 September 2023.
194. *^ <#cite_ref-198>* "PSP's Leong Mun Wai congratulates Tharman on
    election victory, says it shows 'race-based' GRC system 'no longer
    relevant'" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/psp-tharman-grc-system/
    >. /mothership.sg/. Retrieved 5 September 2023.
195. *^ <#cite_ref-199>* "Instagram" <https://www.instagram.com/p/
    Cwyz1sgpv4d/?hl=en>. /instagram.com/. Retrieved 5 September 2023.
196. *^ <#cite_ref-200>* "Chee Soon Juan congratulates Tharman on PE2023
    win" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/chee-soon-juan-tharman-win/>. /
    mothership.sg/. Retrieved 5 September 2023.
197. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RDU_201-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RDU_201-1> "Jurong GRC residents worry about rising cost of living
    and GST hike" <https://theindependent.sg/jurong-grc-residents-
    shines-spotlight-on-gst-and-rising-cost-of-living/>. Retrieved 12
    September 2023.
198. *^ <#cite_ref-202>* "Singapore Indian business community
    congratulates President-elect Tharman | Politics" <https://
    www.devdiscourse.com/article/politics/2579314-singapore-indian-
    business-community-congratulates-president-elect-tharman>. /
    Devdiscourse/. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
199. *^ <#cite_ref-203>* "President-elect Tharman Shanmugaratnam thanks
    supporters with pineapples after election win" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-victory-parade-thanks-supporters-
    pineapples-3742041>. /CNA/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
200. *^ <#cite_ref-204>* "'Vote of confidence in Singapore': Tharman on
    his resounding victory in the Presidential Election" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-presidential-election-
    sample-count-polling-day-70-3741156>. /CNA/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
201. *^ <#cite_ref-205>* Yufeng, Kok; Zachariah, Natasha Ann; Chia,
    Osmond (2 September 2023). "'He is going to make a clear difference
    as the new president': Tharman supporters jubilant after win"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/he-is-going-to-
    make-a-clear-difference-as-the-new-president-tharman-supporters-
    jubilant-after-win>. /The Straits Times/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
202. *^ <#cite_ref-206>* "'I did not expect such a high degree of
    endorsement': President-elect Tharman Shanmugaratnam" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-shanmugaratnam-surprised-
    election-win-margin-presidential-election-3742301>. /CNA/. Retrieved
    2 September 2023.
203. *^ <#cite_ref-207>* Sim, Sherlyn (3 September 2023). "Sales of
    pineapples, pineapple cakes spike after Tharman's win at the polls"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/sales-of-pineapples-
    pineapple-cakes-spike-after-tharman-s-win-at-the-polls>. /The
    Straits Times/. Retrieved 3 September 2023.
204. *^ <#cite_ref-208>* "7040, 1572 and 1388: Why are these 4D numbers
    sold out?" <https://stomp.straitstimes.com/singapore-seen/4d-
    numbers-of-percentages-of-votes-each-presidential-candidate-got-
    sold-out>. /Stomp/. 2 September 2023. Retrieved 3 September 2023.
205. *^ <#cite_ref-209>* "Singaporepools – Latest 4D Results" <https://
    www.singaporepools.com.sg/en/product/Pages/4d_results.aspx?
    sppl=RHJhd051bWJlcj01MDYw>. /singaporepools.com.sg/. Retrieved 3
    September 2023.
206. *^ <#cite_ref-210>* "Singaporepools – Latest 4D Results" <https://
    www.singaporepools.com.sg/en/product/Pages/4d_results.aspx?
    sppl=RHJhd051bWJlcj01MDYx>. /singaporepools.com.sg/. Retrieved 3
    September 2023.
207. *^ <#cite_ref-211>* "Faisal Marican on TikTok" <https://
    www.tiktok.com/@01fhm/video/7274487476675284225?
    is_from_webapp=1&web_id=7223001666651211265>. /TikTok/. Retrieved 6
    September 2023.
208. *^ <#cite_ref-212>* "Toddler who went viral for repeatedly calling
    out Tharman's name on TikTok gets invited to the Istana" <https://
    www.asiaone.com/singapore/toddler-who-went-viral-repeatedly-calling-
    out-tharmans-name-tiktok-gets-invited-istana>. /AsiaOne/. 6
    September 2023. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
209. *^ <#cite_ref-213>* "Presidential Election 2023" <https://
    www.moe.gov.sg/news/press-releases/20230811-presidential-
    election-2023-changes-to-teachers-day-holiday-and-gce-n-level-
    exams>. /moe.gov.sg/. Retrieved 8 September 2023.
210. *^ <#cite_ref-214>* "Alexander Lukashenko congratulates Tharman
    Shanmugaratnam on winning presidential election in Singapore"
    <https://www.tvr.by/eng/news/prezident/
    aleksandr_lukashenko_pozdravil_tarmana_shanmugaratnama_s_pobedoy_na_prezidentskikh_vyborakh_v_singap/>. /TVR.by/. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
211. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:23_215-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    23_215-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:23_215-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-:23_215-3>
    Chin, Hui Shan (2 September 2023). "Countries including US, India
    congratulate Tharman on election win" <https://www.straitstimes.com/
    singapore/politics/us-india-congratulate-tharman-on-election-
    victory-look-forward-to-further-strengthening-ties>. /The Straits
    Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0585-3923 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0585-3923>. Retrieved 14 September 2023.
212. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-ChinaUK_216-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    ChinaUK_216-1> SinghCorrespondent, Keval (14 September 2023).
    "Chinese President Xi, Britain's King Charles congratulate President
    Tharman on inauguration" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/
    chinese-president-xi-britain-s-king-charles-congratulate-president-
    tharman-on-inauguration>. /The Straits Times/. Retrieved 15
    September 2023.
213. *^ <#cite_ref-217>* "PM Modi congratulates Tharman on election as
    Singapore president | Politics" <https://www.devdiscourse.com/
    article/politics/2579404-pm-modi-congratulates-tharman-on-election-
    as-singapore-president>. /Devdiscourse/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
214. *^ <#cite_ref-218>* Khan, Asim (3 September 2023). "PM Anwar sends a
    hearty congratulation to Tharman, who conjured Singapore's
    presidency" <https://bnn.network/politics/pm-anwar-sends-a-hearty-
    congratulation-to-tharman-who-conjured-singapores-presidency/>. /BNN
    Breaking/. Retrieved 3 September 2023.
215. *^ <#cite_ref-219>* "Former M'sian minister Syed Saddiq
    congratulates Tharman on 'historic victory'" <https://mothership.sg/
    2023/09/syed-saddiq-congratulates-president-elect-tharman/>. /
    mothership.sg/. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
216. *^ <#cite_ref-220>* "Saudi king, crown prince congratulate Singapore
    president-elect and Thailand's new PM" <https://www.arabnews.com/
    node/2366796/saudi-arabia>. /Arab News/. 4 September 2023. Retrieved
    6 September 2023.
217. *^ <#cite_ref-221>* "President Tsai congratulates Shanmugaratnam on
    being elected Singapore president – Focus Taiwan" <https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202309020007>. /Focus Taiwan – CNA English
    News/. Retrieved 3 September 2023.
218. *^ <#cite_ref-222>* "UAE Leaders congratulate President of Singapore
    on election win" <https://www.wam.ae/en/details/1395303193548>. /
    wam/. 9 May 2023. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
219. *^ <#cite_ref-223>* "Wolfson alum elected President of Singapore"
    <https://www.varsity.co.uk/news/26036>. /VARSITY/. Retrieved 12
    September 2023.
220. *^ <#cite_ref-224>* "Congratulations to the New President of
    Singapore Tharman Shanmugaratnam" <https://www.state.gov/
    congratulations-to-the-new-president-of-singapore-tharman-
    shanmugaratnam/>. /United States Department of State/. Retrieved 2
    September 2023.
221. *^ <#cite_ref-225>* "Congratulations to new President of Singapore"
    <https://en.nhandan.vn/congratulations-to-new-president-of-
    singapore-post129417.html>. /en.nhandan.vn/. 14 September 2023.
    Retrieved 15 September 2023.
222. *^ <#cite_ref-226>* "The Big Read: First-time voters can play key
    role in deciding presidential race – do they care enough?" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/big-read-first-time-voters-
    presidential-race-3695086>. /CNA/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
223. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:16_227-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    16_227-1> "Most first-time voters understand President's roles, less
    clear on relationship with government: CNA-TODAY survey" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-election-first-time-
    voters-president-cna-today-survey-3661611>. /CNA/. Retrieved 2
    September 2023.
224. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:18_228-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    18_228-1> "All 3 candidates who qualified for Presidential Election
    face challenges ahead: Analysts" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/presidential-election-2023-challenges-ng-kok-song-tan-kin-
    lian-tharman-3707696>. /CNA/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
225. *^ <#cite_ref-229>* "Ern Ser Tan on LinkedIn: ON PE23: an update
    from the perspective of an observer It was only a few…" <https://
    www.linkedin.com/posts/ern-ser-tan-76028447_on-pe23-an-update-from-
    the-perspective-of-activity-7101564233175224320-6YXi>. /
    linkedin.com/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
226. *^ <#cite_ref-230>* "Did opposition backing help or hurt Tan Kin
    Lian in the Presidential Election?" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-presidential-
    election-opposition-support-tan-cheng-bock-3747091>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 31 October 2023.
227. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:20_231-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    20_231-1> "PE 2023: Analysts say opposition backing, '3-in-1
    presidents' claim cast doubt over Tan Kin Lian's independence"
    <https://www.todayonline.com/singapore/pe-2023-tan-kin-lian-
    independent-doubt-analysts-2242211>. /TODAY/. Retrieved 2 September
    2023.
228. *^ <#cite_ref-232>* "Tan Kin Lian's 'pretty girls' posts ignite
    debate about objectifying women, assessment of presidential
    candidates" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tan-kin-lian-
    pretty-girls-women-presidential-election-character-3716156>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 31 October 2023.
229. *^ <#cite_ref-233>* "Presidential candidates have tried to establish
    their 'independence' to varying degrees of success: Analysts"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/presidential-
    election-2023-independence-analysts-ng-kok-song-tharman-tan-kin-
    lian-3729611>. /CNA/. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
230. *^ <#cite_ref-234>* "Singapore PE2023: Analysis of Candidate Track
    Records, Campaign Symbols and Voter Expectations" <https://
    www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=nNQdkz4sKl4>. Retrieved 2
    September 2023.
231. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:21_235-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    21_235-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:21_235-2> "'Rather unexpected':
    Analysts surprised at Tharman's margin of victory in Singapore
    Presidential Election" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/
    presidential-election-results-analysts-tharman-huge-margin-
    unexpected-ng-kok-song-tan-kin-lian-3741236>. /CNA/. Retrieved 2
    September 2023.
232. *^ <#cite_ref-236>* "Faculty" <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20150924112603/http://www.symposium.org/~/media/ISC/Files/Download/
    Speakers%20at%20the%2045th%20St%20%20Gallen%20Symposium.ashx>. 7–8
    May 2015. Archived from the original <http://www.symposium.org/~/
    media/ISC/Files/Download/
    Speakers%20at%20the%2045th%20St%20%20Gallen%20Symposium.ashx> on 24
    September 2015. Retrieved 12 July 2023.
233. *^ <#cite_ref-237>* "LOTS of Questions with Assoc Prof. Eugene Tan"
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uXggwA4XMMM>. Retrieved 3 September
    2023.
234. *^ <#cite_ref-238>* "Heart of the Matter - Presidential Election:
    What do voters think about politics in Singapore?" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/listen/heart-matter/presidential-election-
    what-do-voters-think-about-politics-singapore-3747306>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 31 October 2023.
235. *^ <#cite_ref-239>* "Tharman rode on his popularity going into
    election, had 2 'relatively weak opponents': Analysts" <https://
    www.asiaone.com/singapore/landslide-win-due-tharman-effect-voters-
    did-not-treat-election-referendum-pap-analysts-president-elect>. /
    AsiaOne/. 2 September 2023. Retrieved 2 September 2023.
236. *^ <#cite_ref-240>* "Commentary: Tharman's presidential win a
    triumph for multiracial meritocracy in Singapore, with more to come"
    <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/commentary/presidential-
    election-2023-tharman-shanmugaratnam-polling-day-3741201>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 2 September 2023.
237. *^ <#cite_ref-241>* "No-contest elections are bad, but too many
    contenders could also be undesirable: Walter Woon" <https://
    mothership.sg/2023/06/presidential-elections-too-many-contenders/
    >. /Mothership.sg/. Retrieved 5 September 2023.
238. *^ <#cite_ref-242>* "PE2023 offers 4 lessons on eligibility,
    discretion, politicisation, & unpredictability: Walter Woon"
    <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/pe2023-4-lessons-walter-woon/>. /
    mothership.sg/. Retrieved 5 September 2023.
239. *^ <#cite_ref-243>* Ho, Grace; Liang, Lim Yan; Tan, Judith; Yufeng,
    Kok; Iau, Jean (4 September 2023). "ST Podcast: Traditional
    campaigning still works, says ST team covering PE2023" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/st-podcast-traditional-campaigning-
    still-works-says-st-team-covering-pe2023>. /The Straits Times/.
    Retrieved 6 September 2023.
240. *^ <#cite_ref-244>* "Comment: Tharman's high likelihood of winning
    doesn't make the presidential election a charade" <https://
    mothership.sg/2023/06/comment-tharmans-high-likelihood-of-winning-
    doesnt-make-the-presidential-election-a-charade/>. /mothership.sg/.
    Retrieved 12 September 2023.
241. *^ <#cite_ref-245>* "Comment: Tharman is S'pore's most popular
    elected president ever. How did he do it?" <https://mothership.sg/
    2023/09/comment-tharman-win-how/>. /mothership.sg/. Retrieved 12
    September 2023.
242. *^ <#cite_ref-246>* "Comment: Lost but not wasted; a thank you to
    PE2023's unsuccessful contenders" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/
    pe2023-contender-appreciation/>. /mothership.sg/. Retrieved 12
    September 2023.
243. *^ <#cite_ref-247>* "Comment: Tharman aims to be a unifying figure,
    but unity in S'pore starts in our neighbourhoods" <https://
    mothership.sg/2023/09/tharman-unifying-figure-neighbourhoods/>.
    Retrieved 12 September 2023.
244. *^ <#cite_ref-248>* "Tharman to be inaugurated as S'pore's 9th
    president on Sep. 14, 2023" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/tharman-
    inauguration-when/>. /mothership.sg/. Retrieved 12 September 2023.
245. *^ <#cite_ref-249>* "Incoming President Tharman will not be moving
    to the Istana" <https://mothership.sg/2023/09/tharman-not-moving-to-
    istana/>. /mothership.sg/. Retrieved 12 September 2023.
246. *^ <#cite_ref-250>* "Tharman Shanmugaratnam sworn in as Singapore's
    ninth President" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-inauguration-singapore-president-3763676>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 15 September 2023.
247. *^ <#cite_ref-251>* "Singaporeans have chosen a President who is
    'eminently qualified': PM Lee" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/pm-lee-hsien-loong-president-tharman-shanmugaratnam-
    inauguration-3770396?cid=telegram_cna_social_28112017_cna>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 15 September 2023.
248. *^ <#cite_ref-252>* "President Tharman vows to be 'scrupulous and
    independent' in decisions on reserves" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-president-tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-inauguration-speech-scrupulous-independent-
    reserves-3770341>. /CNA/. Retrieved 15 September 2023.
249. *^ <#cite_ref-253>* "In pictures: Inauguration of Singapore's new
    President Tharman Shanmugaratnam" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/
    singapore/inauguration-singapore-new-president-tharman-
    shanmugaratnam-3770896>. /CNA/. Retrieved 15 September 2023.
250. *^ <#cite_ref-254>* "President Halimah bids farewell to Istana
    staff" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/president-halimah-
    bids-farewell-to-istana-staff>. /Straits Times/. Retrieved 13
    September 2023.
251. *^ <#cite_ref-255>* Correspondent, Tham Yuen-CSenior Political (30
    July 2023). "I expected controversy during reserved election:
    Halimah Yacob reflects on her presidential term" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/singapore/politics/i-expected-controversy-
    during-reserved-election-halimah-yacob>. /The Straits Times/.
    Retrieved 13 September 2023.
252. *^ <#cite_ref-256>* "Singapore 'needs women leaders at every level',
    including among presidential advisers: President Halimah" <https://
    www.todayonline.com/singapore/singapore-needs-women-leaders-every-
    level-including-among-presidential-advisers-president-
    halimah-2244551>. /TODAY/. Retrieved 13 September 2023.
253. *^ <#cite_ref-257>* "'I'm retiring': President Halimah when asked
    about her plans after stepping down from role" <https://
    www.asiaone.com/singapore/im-retiring-president-halimah-when-asked-
    about-her-plans-after-stepping-down-role>. /AsiaOne/. 27 June 2023.
    Retrieved 13 September 2023.
254. *^ <#cite_ref-258>* "Singaporeans must stay united in era of change,
    says Halimah in final speech as President" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/halimah-yacob-farewell-speech-
    president-singaporeans-stand-together-united-3767311>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 13 September 2023.
255. *^ <#cite_ref-259>* "Halimah Yacob fulfilled promise to be a
    'President for everyone', says PM Lee" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/president-halimah-lee-hsien-loong-
    gender-equality-mental-health-ntuc-labour-covid-3767416>. /CNA/.
    Retrieved 13 September 2023.
256. *^ <#cite_ref-260>* "In pictures: President Halimah Yacob bids
    goodbye at the Istana on last day of her term" <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/outgoing-singapore-president-
    halimah-yacob-farewell-reception-pictures-3767726>. /CNA/. Retrieved
    13 September 2023.
257. *^ <#cite_ref-261>* "Halimah Yacob: A President For Everyone -
    mewatch" <https://www.mewatch.sg/season/Halimah-Yacob-A-President-
    For-Everyone-403102>. Retrieved 13 September 2023.
258. *^ <#cite_ref-262>* "Thank you, Madam President" <https://
    www.straitstimes.com/multimedia/graphics/2023/09/thank-you-madam-
    president-singapore/index.html?shell>. /The Straits Times/.
    Retrieved 15 September 2023.
259. *^ <#cite_ref-263>* RakshikaCorrespondent, Vihanya (25 September
    2023). "Former president Halimah Yacob named as new SUSS chancellor"
    <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/former-president-halimah-
    yacob-named-as-new-suss-chancellor>. /The Straits Times/. Retrieved
    31 October 2023.
260. *^ <#cite_ref-264>* Correspondent, Goh Yan HanPolitical (25 October
    2023). "Former president Halimah Yacob awarded Singapore's highest
    civilian honour" <https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/former-
    president-halimah-yacob-conferred-order-of-temasek-tops-list-of-
    national-award-recipients>. /The Straits Times/. Retrieved 31
    October 2023.


    External links[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2023_Singaporean_presidential_election&action=edit&section=45>]

  * <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Commons-logo.svg> Media related
    to Singaporean presidential election, 2023 <https://
    commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/
    Category:Singaporean_presidential_election,_2023> at Wikimedia Commons
  * Report of the Singapore Presidential Election 2023 by CNA <https://
    www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore-presidential-election>

