  2023 Serbian parliamentary election

Contributors to Wikimedia projects
198–252 minut
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2023 Serbian parliamentary electionSerbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Serbia>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
← 2022 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Serbian_general_election> 	
*17 December 2023* 	/Next/ →

------------------------------------------------------------------------
All 250 seats in the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(Serbia)>
126 seats needed for a majority
Turnout	58.77% (Increase 0.24 pp <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Percentage_point>)
Party 	Leader 	% 	Seats 	+/–
SNS coalition <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbia_Must_Not_Stop> 	
Miloš Vučević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Vu%C4%8Devi%C4%87> 	48.06 	129 	+9
SPN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbia_Against_Violence_(coalition)>
	Marinika Tepić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marinika_Tepi%C4%87>,
Miroslav Aleksić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Miroslav_Aleksi%C4%87_(born_1978)> 	24.32 	65 	+25
SPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Party_of_Serbia>–JS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Serbia>–ZS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greens_of_Serbia> 	Ivica Dačić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivica_Da%C4%8Di%C4%87> 	6.73 	18 	−13
NADA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)> 	Miloš Jovanović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	5.16 	13 	−2
MI–GIN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
We%E2%80%93The_Voice_from_the_People> 	Branimir Nestorović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Branimir_Nestorovi%C4%87> 	4.82 	13 	New
Minority lists
VMSZ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alliance_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians> 	
Bálint Pásztor <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%C3%A1lint_P%C3%A1sztor>
	1.74 	6 	+1
SPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_and_Reconciliation_Party>–
DSHV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Alliance_of_Croats_in_Vojvodina> 	Usame Zukorlić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usame_Zukorli%C4%87> 	0.78 	2 	−2
SDAS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Party_of_Democratic_Action_of_Sand%C5%BEak> 	Sulejman Ugljanin <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sulejman_Ugljanin> 	0.59 	2 	0
PBASN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Albanian_Coalition_of_Pre%C5%A1evo_Valley> 	Shaip Kamberi <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shaip_Kamberi> 	0.36 	1 	0
RS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Party_(Serbia)>–NKPJ <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Communist_Party_of_Yugoslavia> 	Slobodan
Nikolić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Slobodan_Nikoli%C4%87_(politician)> 	0.31 	1 	New

This lists parties that won seats. See the complete results below.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
2023_Serbian_parliamentary_election_detailed_map.svg>

Most voted-for party by municipality <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Municipalities_and_cities_of_Serbia>. The map includes Kosovo <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosovo>.

Prime Minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Serbia>
before 	
Ana Brnabić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ana_Brnabi%C4%87>
SNS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Progressive_Party> 	

Parliamentary elections were held in Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Serbia> on 17 December 2023 to elect members of the National
Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Assembly_(Serbia)>.
While they were initially scheduled to be held by 30 April 2026,
Aleksandar Vučić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_Vu%C4%8Di%C4%87>, the president of Serbia, called a snap
election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snap_election> in November 2023,
after previously announcing that snap elections could be either held in
2023 or 2024. In addition to the parliamentary elections, the Vojvodina
provincial <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2023_Vojvodina_provincial_election> and local <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/2023_Serbian_local_elections> elections were held in 65 cities and
municipalities, including the capital, Belgrade <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Belgrade_City_Assembly_election>.

The Serbian Progressive Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbian_Progressive_Party> (SNS) came to power after the 2012 election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2012_Serbian_parliamentary_election> when
it formed a coalition government with the Socialist Party of Serbia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Party_of_Serbia>. In the 2022
parliamentary election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2022_Serbian_general_election>, SNS lost its parliamentary majority
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parliamentary_majority> while opposition
parties returned to the National Assembly. The United for the Victory of
Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_for_the_Victory_of_Serbia>
alliance, which placed second, was dissolved shortly after the election.
Ana Brnabić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ana_Brnabi%C4%87>, who has
been the prime minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Prime_Minister_of_Serbia> since 2017, and her third cabinet <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_cabinet_of_Ana_Brnabi%C4%87> were
inaugurated in October 2022. Her cabinet saw several changes in 2023;
Branko Ružić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Branko_Ru%C5%BEi%C4%87_(politician)> resigned and Rade Basta <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rade_Basta> was dismissed. Brnabić's cabinet has
also been involved in the North Kosovo crisis <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/North_Kosovo_crisis_(2022%E2%80%93present)> and was faced with
anti-government protests <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2023_Serbian_protests> from May to November 2023, which were triggered
after the Belgrade school shooting <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Belgrade_school_shooting> and a mass murder near Mladenovac and
Smederevo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mladenovac_and_Smederevo_shootings>.

Opposition parties organising the protests formed the Serbia Against
Violence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbia_Against_Violence_(coalition)> coalition in October. The campaign
was met with an increase in political tensions, polarisation <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_polarization>, and voter intimidation
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voter_intimidation>. Candidates
campaigned on issues such as fighting against crime and corruption,
decreasing inflation, and the Ohrid Agreement <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Ohrid_Agreement_(2023)>. Despite not being a candidate and no
longer being president of SNS, Vučić mainly represented SNS during the
campaign. The Republic Electoral Commission proclaimed 18 electoral
lists for the parliamentary election.

Monitoring and non-governmental organisations reported that the election
day was marked with electoral fraud <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Electoral_fraud>, mostly in the Belgrade <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Belgrade> region. ODIHR <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ODIHR> concluded
that the elections were well organised, but that SNS had a systematic
advantage in the election and abused public funds. The election resulted
into SNS regaining its parliamentary majority, despite opinion polls
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Opinion_polling_for_the_2023_Serbian_parliamentary_election> predicting
a decrease of support, and SPS suffering from its worst result since the
2007 election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2007_Serbian_parliamentary_election>. The We–The Voice from the People
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We%E2%80%93The_Voice_from_the_People> of
conspiracy theorist Branimir Nestorović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Branimir_Nestorovi%C4%87> also gained representation in the National
Assembly. Mass protests <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2023_Serbian_election_protests> began a day after the election.


    Background

A populist <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Populist> coalition, led by
the Serbian Progressive Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbian_Progressive_Party> (SNS), came to power after the 2012 election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2012_Serbian_parliamentary_election>,
along with the Socialist Party of Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Socialist_Party_of_Serbia> (SPS).^[1] <#cite_note-1> ^[2] <#cite_note-2>
Aleksandar Vučić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_Vu%C4%8Di%C4%87>, who initially served as deputy prime
minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deputy_Prime_Minister_of_Serbia>
and later as prime minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Prime_Minister_of_Serbia>, was elected president <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Serbia> in 2017 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_Serbian_presidential_election> and re-elected
in 2022 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2022_Serbian_general_election>.^[3] <#cite_note-3> ^[4] <#cite_note-4>
Since he came to power, observers have assessed that Serbia has suffered
from democratic backsliding <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_backsliding> into authoritarianism <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Authoritarianism>, followed by a decline in media freedom <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_freedom_in_Serbia> and civil liberties
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_liberties>.^[5] <#cite_note-5> ^[6]
<#cite_note-6> In 2023, the V-Dem Institute <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/V-Dem_Institute> categorised Serbia as an electoral autocracy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electoral_autocracy>, while Freedom House
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_House> noted that SNS "eroded
political rights and civil liberties, put pressure on independent media,
the opposition, and civil society organisations".^[7] <#cite_note-7>
^[8] <#cite_note-8> ^[9] <#cite_note-9>

The Together We Can Do Everything <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Together_We_Can_Do_Everything> coalition, which was led by SNS, lost its
parliamentary majority <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Parliamentary_majority> in the 2022 parliamentary election, but the
election also oversaw twelve electoral lists in total, including the
ones from the opposition, that crossed the 3 percent threshold <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electoral_threshold>.^[10] <#cite_note-10> Non-
governmental and election monitoring organisations reported that
electoral irregularities <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Election_irregularities> occurred during the voting day.^[11]
<#cite_note-11> ^[12] <#cite_note-12> ^[13] <#cite_note-13> Following
the election, the United for the Victory of Serbia <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_for_the_Victory_of_Serbia> (UZPS)
coalition, which placed second, was dissolved.^[14] <#cite_note-:1-14>
^[15] <#cite_note-15>

Ana Brnabić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ana_Brnabi%C4%87>, who has
been the prime minister <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Prime_Minister_of_Serbia> since 2017, and her third cabinet <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_cabinet_of_Ana_Brnabi%C4%87> were sworn in
on 26 October 2022.^[16] <#cite_note-16> Rade Basta <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rade_Basta>, a minister in Brnabić's cabinet,
voiced his support for introducing sanctions on Russia <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
International_sanctions_during_the_Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine> in March
2023.^[17] <#cite_note-17> SPS and United Serbia <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Serbia> (JS) later submitted a proposal to
dismiss him from government, which went successful.^[18] <#cite_note-:
53-18> ^[19] <#cite_note-19> In May 2023, Vučić was succeeded by Miloš
Vučević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milo%C5%A1_Vu%C4%8Devi%C4%87> as
president of SNS.^[20] <#cite_note-20>


      North Kosovo crisis

Two trucks roadblocking in North Kosovo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:North_Kosovo_crisis_2022_barricades.jpg>
Tensions between Serbia and Kosovo escalated in July 2022

Beginning in July 2022, tensions between Serbia and Kosovo <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosovo> heightened, firstly due to the expiration
of the eleven-year validity period for car documents.^[21]
<#cite_note-21> ^[22] <#cite_note-:20-22> After negotiations with the
diplomatic representatives of the European Union <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union> in August, an agreement on car
documents was reached.^[23] <#cite_note-23> The agreement went into
effect on 1 September, with the deadline for obtaining new car documents
set for 31 October 2022.^[22] <#cite_note-:20-22> A proposed agreement
to normalise tensions, later-informally known as the Ohrid Agreement
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ohrid_Agreement_(2023)>, was sent to
Serbia and Kosovo by Jens Plötner <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Jens_Pl%C3%B6tner&action=edit&redlink=1> [de <https://
de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jens_Pl%C3%B6tner>] and Emmanuel Bonne <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emmanuel_Bonne> and was leaked in September
2022.^[24] <#cite_note-24> Its existence was confirmed by Serbia and
Kosovo a month later.^[25] <#cite_note-25> Shortly before the deadline
for the car documents expired, Albin Kurti <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Albin_Kurti>, the prime minister of Kosovo, announced that a phased
implementation would instead be implemented up to 21 April 2023.^[26]
<#cite_note-26> In protest to the announcement, hundreds of Kosovo Serb
police officers, mayors, and Serb List <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serb_List_(Kosovo)> politicians resigned from their positions.^[27]
<#cite_note-:92-27> Another agreement was reached in November 2022,
after negotiations with the European Union; it was announced that
licence plates issued by Serbia would continue to be in use in North
Kosovo.^[28] <#cite_note-:132-28> ^[29] <#cite_note-29>

After claims that the Regional Operational Support Unit (ROSU) allegedly
raided North Mitrovica <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Mitrovica>
in December 2022, Serbia announced that it would deploy Serbian forces
to Kosovo.^[30] <#cite_note-:152-30> The government of Kosovo <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_of_Kosovo> rejected the claim that ROSU
entered North Mitrovica, while Kosovo Force <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Kosovo_Force> rejected Serbia's request to deploy Serbian forces to
Kosovo.^[31] <#cite_note-31> ^[32] <#cite_note-32> Amidst this,
barricades were put up in North Kosovo and ultranationalist <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultranationalist> protests were organised in
Belgrade.^[33] <#cite_note-:19-33> ^[34] <#cite_note-34> Negotiations
between Serbia and Kosovo continued, and in March 2023 Vučić and Kurti
verbally agreed to implement the Ohrid Agreement.^[35] <#cite_note-35>

An attack perpetrated by Serb militants <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Militants> occurred on 24 September 2023 in Banjska <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banjska_(village)>, a village in North Kosovo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Kosovo>.^[36] <#cite_note-:21-36>
^[37] <#cite_note-37> The attack resulted in death of one Kosovo Police
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosovo_Police> officer and three Serb
militants.^[36] <#cite_note-:21-36> Milan Radoičić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milan_Radoi%C4%8Di%C4%87>, a businessman and
member of the Serb List, admitted being involved in the attack; he was
later arrested by the government of Serbia, but the Supreme Court
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supreme_Court_(Serbia)> denied the motion
to place Radoičić in custody for 30 days and he was ultimately
released.^[38] <#cite_note-38> ^[39] <#cite_note-39> In response to the
attack, Serbia declared a national day of mourning <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_day_of_mourning> for 27 September due to
the death of three Serb militants.^[40] <#cite_note-40> Kosovo alleged
that the Serb participants had close relations with Vučić and the
government of Serbia.^[41] <#cite_note-41> ^[42] <#cite_note-42> The
European Parliament <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Parliament>
also adopted a resolution to introduce measures against Serbia if proven
to be directly involved in the attack.^[43] <#cite_note-43>


      2023 protests

Demonstrators protesting in the Kneza Miloša Street on 19 May 2023
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Srbija_protiv_nasilja,_19._maj_7_(cropped).jpg>
Demonstrators on 19 May 2023

In May 2023, the Belgrade school shooting <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Belgrade_school_shooting> and a mass murder near Mladenovac and
Smederevo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mladenovac_and_Smederevo_shootings> occurred.^[44] <#cite_note-44> ^[45]
<#cite_note-45> The government responded by adopting measures such as
stricter regulations on gun ownership and hiring 1,200 police officers
to schools.^[46] <#cite_note-bbcnews1-46> ^[47] <#cite_note-47> It was
also criticised, particularly due to the statement of Branko Ružić
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Branko_Ru%C5%BEi%C4%87_(politician)>, the
minister of education, who said that "a cancerous, pernicious influence
of the Internet, video games, and so-called Western values, is evident"
in the shooting, and Brnabić, who said that the "system did not fail"
when responding to the claims that the government could have stopped the
shootings.^[48] <#cite_note-48> ^[49] <#cite_note-49>

This resulted in mass protests, named Serbia Against Violence, which
began on 8 May.^[50] <#cite_note-:2-50> ^[51] <#cite_note-51> Tens of
thousands attended the protests.^[52] <#cite_note-:6-52> ^[53]
<#cite_note-53> ^[54] <#cite_note-54> Despite being organised by the
Democratic Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_(Serbia)> (DS), Do not let Belgrade drown <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Do_not_let_Belgrade_drown> (NDB), Party of Freedom
and Justice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Party_of_Freedom_and_Justice>
(SSP), People's Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Party_(Serbia,_2017)> (Narodna), and Together <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Together_(Serbia)> opposition parties, no party
signs were reported to be seen at the protests.^[55] <#cite_note-:8-55>
In response to Serbia Against Violence protests, Vučić held an SNS-
organised gathering on 26 May.^[56] <#cite_note-56> A number of farmers
also protested from 16 to 20 May.^[57] <#cite_note-:9-57> ^[58]
<#cite_note-58> The protests have been continuously organised in
Belgrade and other cities from May 2023^[59] <#cite_note-59> ^[60]
<#cite_note-60> ^[61] <#cite_note-61> until November 2023.^[62]
<#cite_note-62>

In response to the shootings, and a day before the protests began, Ružić
announced his resignation.^[63] <#cite_note-63> Đorđe Milićević
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C4%90or%C4%91e_Mili%C4%87evi%C4%87> was
appointed as acting minister and was succeeded by Slavica Đukić
Dejanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Slavica_%C4%90uki%C4%87_Dejanovi%C4%87> in late July 2023.^[64]
<#cite_note-milicevicvd-64> ^[65] <#cite_note-dejanovic-65> As one of
the demands of the protests, organisers initiated a motion in the
National Assembly to dismiss minister Bratislav Gašić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bratislav_Ga%C5%A1i%C4%87> in early July 2023,
however, the motion was unsuccessful.^[66] <#cite_note-66>


    Electoral system

The 250 members of the National Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(Serbia)> are elected by closed-list <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closed-list> proportional representation <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proportional_representation> from a single
nationwide constituency <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Constituency>.^[67] <#cite_note-:02-67> ^[68] <#cite_note-:0-68>
Eligible voters vote for electoral lists <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Electoral_list>, on which the candidates of the accepted lists are
present.^[68] <#cite_note-:0-68> A maximum of 250 candidates could be
present on a single electoral list.^[68] <#cite_note-:0-68> An electoral
list could be submitted by a registered political party, a coalition of
political parties, or a citizens' group.^[68] <#cite_note-:0-68> To
submit an electoral list, at least 10,000 valid signatures must be
collected, though ethnic minority <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Minority_group> parties only need to collect 5,000 signatures to qualify
on ballot.^[68] <#cite_note-:0-68> ^[69] <#cite_note-:5-69> At least 40
percent of candidates on electoral lists must be female.^[70]
<#cite_note-70> The electoral list is submitted by its chosen
representative or representatives.^[71] <#cite_note-:3-71> An electoral
list could be declined, after which those who had submitted can fix the
deficiencies in a span of 48 hours, or rejected, if the person is not
authorised to nominate candidates.^[71] <#cite_note-:3-71> The name and
date of the election, names of the electoral lists and its
representatives, and information on how to vote are only present on the
voting ballot.^[71] <#cite_note-:3-71>

The Republic Electoral Commission <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Republic_Electoral_Commission_(Serbia)&action=edit&redlink=1>
(RIK), local election commissions, and polling boards oversee the
election.^[71] <#cite_note-:3-71> Seats are allocated using the d'Hondt
method <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%27Hondt_method> with an
electoral threshold of 3 percent of all votes cast, although the
threshold is waived for ethnic minority parties.^[67] <#cite_note-:
02-67> ^[72] <#cite_note-72> The seats are distributed by dividing the
total number of votes received by the electoral list participating in
the distribution of seats by each number from one to 250.^[71]
<#cite_note-:3-71> If two or more electoral lists receive the same
quotients on the basis of which the seat is distributed, the electoral
list that received the greater number of votes has priority.^[71]
<#cite_note-:3-71> Parliamentary seats are awarded to candidates from
electoral lists according to their order, starting with the first
candidate from an electoral list.^[68] <#cite_note-:0-68>

A parliamentary election is called by the president of Serbia, who also
has to announce its date and dissolve the National Assembly in the
process.^[68] <#cite_note-:0-68> ^[71] <#cite_note-:3-71> According to
law, the next parliamentary election was supposed to take place by 30
April 2026.^[73] <#cite_note-:4-73> It is possible for a snap election
to take place.^[74] <#cite_note-74> To vote, a person has to be a
citizen and resident of Serbia and at least 18 years old.^[73]
<#cite_note-:4-73> For those who live abroad, they are able to vote at
diplomatic missions.^[67] <#cite_note-:02-67> At least five days before
the election, citizens are notified about the election; citizens receive
information about the day and time of the election and the address of
the polling station where they can vote.^[68] <#cite_note-:0-68>
Election silence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Election_silence> begins
two days before the voting day and it lasts until the closure of all
polling stations.^[75] <#cite_note-:30-75> During the election day,
eligible voters could vote from 07:00 (UTC+01:00 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTC%2B01:00>) to 20:00, though if the polling
station is opened later than 07:00, voting is then extended by the
amount of time for which the opening of the polling station was
delayed.^[71] <#cite_note-:3-71> ^[76] <#cite_note-:33-76> Voters who
are not able to vote at polling stations due to being sick, old, or
invalid have to inform their election commission before 11:00 so that
they could vote on the election day from their home between after
11:00.^[76] <#cite_note-:33-76>


      Election date

In April 2023, newspaper /Danas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Danas_(newspaper)>/ reported that a parliamentary election, local
elections <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Serbian_local_elections>,
the Vojvodina provincial election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2023_Vojvodina_provincial_election>, and the Belgrade City Assembly
election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2023_Belgrade_City_Assembly_election> could be held as early as in
November 2023.^[77] <#cite_note-77> Days after the beginning of the 2023
protests, Vučić said that snap elections could take place before
September 2023.^[78] <#cite_note-78> ^[79] <#cite_note-79> A month
later, Vučić said that "now it is clear that we will have early
parliamentary elections, it is only a matter of time when they will be
held".^[80] <#cite_note-80> At a press conference in July 2023, Vučić
said that an early election "could take place in September or December
if the opposition parties agree. And if not, we will have general
elections in April or May 2024, to be held concurrently with the
Vojvodina provincial election and the regular local elections".^[81]
<#cite_note-81> By law, the Vojvodina provincial election and regular
local elections could be held as late as 30 June 2024.^[82]
<#cite_note-82> A month later, in August, Vučić said that provincial and
local elections will "certainly be held in the next six or seven
months", and that "most likely, parliamentary ones will be held as
well".^[83] <#cite_note-83>

Newspaper /Nova <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nova_(Serbia)>/ and news
portal /N1 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N1_(TV_channel)>/ reported in
September 2023 that local, provincial, and parliamentary elections could
be held as early as 19 December 2023.^[84] <#cite_note-84> ^[85]
<#cite_note-85> Vučić and Vučević also held a gathering with officials
from Vojvodina on 5 September.^[86] <#cite_note-86> In late September,
Vučić announced that the elections will be called in December 2023 for
them to be organised on 4 March 2024.^[87] <#cite_note-87> He
subsequently announced, first in September and again in October, that
the elections could be held on 17 December 2023.^[88] <#cite_note-88>
^[89] <#cite_note-89> The decision to hold snap elections was confirmed
on 28 September at a government session.^[90] <#cite_note-90> For the
election to take place on 17 December, the government of Serbia had to
formally propose to dissolve the National Assembly between 18 October
and 2 November.^[91] <#cite_note-:26-91> The president of Serbia then
had 72 hours to decide whether to dissolve the National Assembly or
not.^[91] <#cite_note-:26-91> However, the official campaign period
would only last 45 days if the election is to be called on 2
November.^[92] <#cite_note-:25-92> The government of Serbia sent Vučić a
proposal to dissolve the National Assembly and organise local elections
in 65 cities and municipalities on 30 October.^[93] <#cite_note-93> On 1
November, Vučić dissolved the National Assembly and called the elections
for 17 December.^[94] <#cite_note-94> The official campaign period will
last 46 days.^[95] <#cite_note-95> Ognjen Radonjić, a professor at the
Faculty of Philosophy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Faculty_of_Philosophy,_University_of_Belgrade>, and Dragan Popović, the
director of the Centre for Practical Politics, argued that the Banjska
attack was one of the main reasons why Vučić announced early
elections.^[96] <#cite_note-96> The Assembly of Vojvodina <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assembly_of_Vojvodina> also dissolved itself on 16
November, also setting the provincial election date for 17
December.^[97] <#cite_note-97>

The 2023 parliamentary election was the first parliamentary election
since the 2007 parliamentary election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2007_Serbian_parliamentary_election>, which was held on 21 January, to
be held in the winter <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winter>
season.^[98] <#cite_note-98> Dejan Bursać, a teaching associate at the
Institute for Political Studies <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Institute_for_Political_Studies_in_Belgrade>, argued that ruling parties
"avoid the winter for voting because the voters are more dissatisfied,
the turnout cannot be easily controlled because of the weather, and the
costs to the people are increased".^[99] <#cite_note-:06-99> Ivana
Petronijević Terzić, a Demostat journalist, has also listed increased
inflation, higher bills due to heating, and worse weather conditions as
one of the reasons, but she has also said that under "normal
circumstances and a democratic atmosphere" these reasons would be a
problem.^[99] <#cite_note-:06-99> In preparations for the elections, RIK
began acquiring election equipment, including ballot boxes, UV lamps
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UV_lamps>, and finger sprays, on 13
October.^[100] <#cite_note-100>


      Election conditions

A group of opposition parties, led by the Forward to Europe <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forward_to_Europe> (PE) and Green–Left Front
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green%E2%80%93Left_Front> (ZLF)
parliamentary groups, sent a joint letter to Organization for Security
and Co-operation in Europe <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Organization_for_Security_and_Co-operation_in_Europe> (OSCE) and other
election observers in Serbia in September 2023, with the request to
declare the election conditions for the upcoming elections.^[101]
<#cite_note-:28-101> PE and ZLF alleged that the conditions have
worsened since the 2022 parliamentary election, while adding that the
organisations should "consider them unfree and undemocratic if they are
held without the recommendations from the Office for Democratic
Institutions and Human Rights <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Office_for_Democratic_Institutions_and_Human_Rights> (ODIHR)
report.^[101] <#cite_note-:28-101> In an /Insajder/ interview, political
scientist Cvijetin Milivojević <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Cvijetin_Milivojevi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> [sr <https://
sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cvijetin_Milivojevi%C4%87>] also claimed that the
conditions are "maybe even worse now", but added that due to the short
campaign timespan "it is impossible to fix those conditions now".^[102]
<#cite_note-102> Bursać and Jovana Đurbabić, from non-governmental and
monitoring organisation CRTA <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=CRTA_(organisation)&action=edit&redlink=1> [sr <https://
sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crta_(organizacija)>], listed "unequal access to
the media, campaign of party officials, and control of the elections at
the polling stations" as three main problems of the election conditions
in Serbia.^[103] <#cite_note-103>

After PE and ZLF, Brnabić also called OSCE and ODIHR in October 2023 to
monitor the elections, while claiming that opposition parties are
"frivolous and are trying to involve foreign factors in causing chaos"
and that they are "trying to form a perception that there is no
framework for free and democratic elections".^[104] <#cite_note-104>
^[105] <#cite_note-105> ^[106] <#cite_note-106> Brnabić claimed that "79
percent of ODIHR's recommendations have been implemented" and that
election conditions have been improved.^[107] <#cite_note-107> ^[108]
<#cite_note-:29-108> In its analysis, CRTA claimed that conditions have
been only improved in administrative aspects and that recommendations
related to voter pressure, misuse of public resources, and media
coverage remain unfulfilled.^[108] <#cite_note-:29-108> DS sent another
request to OSCE in October 2023.^[109] <#cite_note-109> ODIHR announced
that it would monitor the elections and that it would deploy 30 long-
term observers and 250 observers that would observe the elections on the
election day.^[110] <#cite_note-110> The National Youth Council of
Serbia (KOMS) and a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the
Council of Europe <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Parliamentary_Assembly_of_the_Council_of_Europe> (PACE) announced that
they would monitor the elections in Serbia.^[111] <#cite_note-111>
^[112] <#cite_note-112> RIK announced that 5,587 observers would monitor
the elections.^[113] <#cite_note-113>

The Committee for Culture and Information of the National Assembly
amended the ban on campaign of party officials, extending it to 30 days,
as part of the proposed changes to the Law on Public Information and
Media which the National Assembly adopted on 26 October.^[114]
<#cite_note-114> ^[115] <#cite_note-115> On the same day, the National
Assembly also appointed general manager of the National Theatre
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Theatre_in_Belgrade> Svetislav
Goncić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svetislav_Gonci%C4%87>, political
scientist Aleksandar Milosavljević, professor Dragan Vučinić, political
scientist Jovanka Matić, science advisor Slobodan Prvanović, professor
Branko Rakić, law counselor Miodrag Savović, professor Bojan Tubić,
scientist Vojin Vučićević, and opera singer Aleksandar Stamatović as
members of the supervisory board for the Election Campaign, which was
established on 13 November.^[116] <#cite_note-116> ^[117] <#cite_note-117>

In mid November 2023, ODIHR also announced that it requested to collect
the votes of Serbian citizens on Kosovo.^[118] <#cite_note-118> Kurti
responded by saying that "Kosovo and Serbia must reach a special
agreement so that members of the Serbian community in Kosovo, who have
dual citizenship, could vote on the territory of Kosovo in the Serbian
parliamentary elections".^[119] <#cite_note-119> On 23 November, RIK
announced that there are no conditions to organise elections on Kosovo
and that those with dual citizenship could exercise their right to vote
in Vranje <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vranje>, Kuršumlija <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kur%C5%A1umlija>, Raška <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Ra%C5%A1ka,_Serbia>, and Tutin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tutin,_Serbia>.^[120] <#cite_note-120> The European Union criticised
Kosovo's rejection of holding the Serbian parliamentary election on its
territory.^[121] <#cite_note-121>


      Political parties

The table below lists political parties and coalitions elected in the
National Assembly after the 2022 parliamentary election.^[122]
<#cite_note-:22-122> Out of 19 electoral lists, only 7 crossed the 3
percent threshold while 5 minority electoral lists crossed the waived
electoral threshold.^[122] <#cite_note-:22-122> The official results
were postponed until 5 July, due to the repeated voting in Veliki
Trnovac <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Veliki_Trnovac>, where a seat in
the National Assembly was battled between SPS and the Albanian Coalition
of Preševo Valley <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Albanian_Coalition_of_Pre%C5%A1evo_Valley> (KSLP), led by the Party for
Democratic Action <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Party_for_Democratic_Action>.^[123] <#cite_note-123> ^[124]
<#cite_note-124> At the fifth repeat election, held on 30 June, KSLP won
enough votes to earn a seat in the National Assembly.^[125]
<#cite_note-125>

Name 	Ideology 	Political position 	Leader 	2022 result
Votes (%) 	Seats
	SNS–led coalition <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Together_We_Can_Do_Everything> 	Populism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Populism> 	Big tent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_tent> 	Aleksandar
Vučić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aleksandar_Vu%C4%8Di%C4%87> 	44.27% 	

120 / 250

	United for the Victory of Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_for_the_Victory_of_Serbia> 	Anti-corruption <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-corruption> 	Centre <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrism> 	Marinika Tepić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marinika_Tepi%C4%87> 	14.09% 	

38 / 250

	SPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Party_of_Serbia>–JS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Serbia>–ZS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greens_of_Serbia> 	Populism <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Populism> 	Big tent <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Big_tent> 	Ivica Dačić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ivica_Da%C4%8Di%C4%87> 	11.79% 	

31 / 250

	National Democratic Alternative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)> 	National conservatism
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_conservatism> 	Right-wing
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-wing> 	Vojislav Mihailović
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vojislav_Mihailovi%C4%87> 	5.54% 	

15 / 250

	We Must <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We_Must_(Serbia)> 	Green
politics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_politics> 	Centre-left
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centre-left> to left-wing <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Left-wing> 	Nebojša Zelenović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neboj%C5%A1a_Zelenovi%C4%87> 	4.84% 	

13 / 250

	Dveri <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dveri>–POKS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/POKS> 	Serbian nationalism <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_nationalism> 	Right-wing <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-wing> to far-right <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-right> 	Boško Obradović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bo%C5%A1ko_Obradovi%C4%87> 	3.92% 	

10 / 250

	Serbian Party Oathkeepers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbian_Party_Oathkeepers> 	Ultranationalism <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Ultranationalism> 	Far-right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-
right> 	Milica Đurđević
Stamenkovski <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milica_%C4%90ur%C4%91evi%C4%87_Stamenkovski> 	3.82% 	

10 / 250

	Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alliance_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians> 	Minority politics <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minority_politics> 	István Pásztor <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Istv%C3%A1n_P%C3%A1sztor_(politician)> 	1.63% 	

5 / 250

	Justice and Reconciliation Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Justice_and_Reconciliation_Party> 	Usame Zukorlić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usame_Zukorli%C4%87> 	0.97% 	

3 / 250

	DSHV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Alliance_of_Croats_in_Vojvodina>–ZZV <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Together_for_Vojvodina_(party)> 	Tomislav Žigmanov
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomislav_%C5%BDigmanov> 	0.65% 	

2 / 250

	SDA Sandžak <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Party_of_Democratic_Action_of_Sand%C5%BEak> 	Sulejman Ugljanin <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sulejman_Ugljanin> 	0.56% 	

2 / 250

	Party for Democratic Action <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Party_for_Democratic_Action> 	Shaip Kamberi <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Shaip_Kamberi> 	0.27% 	

1 / 250

Source: Republic Bureau of Statistics^[122] <#cite_note-:22-122>


      Pre-election composition

The thirteenth convocation of the National Assembly <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/13th_National_Assembly_of_Serbia> held its first
session on 1 August 2022, at which the current parliamentary composition
was formalised.^[126] <#cite_note-126> ^[127] <#cite_note-:7-127>
Vladimir Orlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Orli%C4%87> of
SNS was elected president of the National Assembly <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_National_Assembly_of_Serbia> on 2
August, while Sandra Božić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sandra_Bo%C5%BEi%C4%87> (SNS), Snežana Paunović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sne%C5%BEana_Paunovi%C4%87> (SPS), Elvira Kovács
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elvira_Kov%C3%A1cs> (Alliance of
Vojvodina Hungarians <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alliance_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians>, VMSZ), Usame Zukorlić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usame_Zukorli%C4%87> (Justice and Reconciliation
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_and_Reconciliation_Party>,
SPP), Božidar Delić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bo%C5%BEidar_Deli%C4%87> (National Democratic Alternative <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)>, NADA),
Borko Stefanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Borko_Stefanovi%C4%87>
(SPP), and Zoran Lutovac <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoran_Lutovac>
(DS) were elected vice-presidents.^[128] <#cite_note-128> Delić died
shortly after taking office and was replaced by Vojislav Mihailović
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vojislav_Mihailovi%C4%87> in November
2022.^[129] <#cite_note-129> ^[130] <#cite_note-130> The composition of
the National Assembly has changed since the first session in August
2022; for example, the European Regions <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
European_Regions_(Serbia)>, a parliamentary group composed of minority
interest parties, briefly existed until October 2022.^[131]
<#cite_note-131> ^[132] <#cite_note-132> The last session of the
thirteenth convocation was held from 23 to 26 October.^[133]
<#cite_note-133> ^[134] <#cite_note-134>

Pre-election parliamentary composition^[135] <#cite_note-135> Groups 	
Parties 	MPs
Seats 	Total
	Aleksandar Vučić – Together We Can Do Everything <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_Vu%C4%8Di%C4%87_%E2%80%93_Together_We_Can_Do_Everything> 		
SNS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Progressive_Party> 	99 	*109*
	PSS–BK <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strength_of_Serbia_Movement> 	3
	SNP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_People%27s_Party_(2014)> 	2
	PS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Movement_of_Socialists> 	2
	SPO <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Renewal_Movement> 	2
	NSS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Peasant_Party> 	1
	Ivica Dačić – Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) 		SPS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Party_of_Serbia> 	22 	*23*
	ZS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greens_of_Serbia> 	1
	Forward to Europe – SSP, PSG, Reversal, Sloga <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forward_to_Europe> 		SSP <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Party_of_Freedom_and_Justice> 	9 	*15*
	PSG <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Movement_of_Free_Citizens_(Serbia)> 	3
	PZP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Movement_for_Reversal> 	1
	USS Sloga <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_Trade_Unions_of_Serbia_%22Sloga%22> 	1
	Fatherland <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatherland_(movement)> 	1
	NADA – New DSS – POKS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)> 		NDSS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Democratic_Party_of_Serbia> 	7 	*14*
	POKS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/POKS> 	7
	Democratic Party – DS 		DS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_(Serbia)> 	10 	*10*
	United Serbia – Dragan Marković Palma 		JS <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/United_Serbia> 	7 	*8*
	People's Party 		Narodna <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Party_(Serbia,_2017)> 	8 	*8*
	People's Movement of Serbia – Ecological Uprising – New Face of Serbia
		NPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Movement_of_Serbia> 	4 	*8*
	EU <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecological_Uprising> 	3
	NLS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Face_of_Serbia> 	1
	Serbian Party Oathkeepers 		SSZ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbian_Party_Oathkeepers> 	8 	*8*
	Social Democratic Party of Serbia 		SDPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Social_Democratic_Party_of_Serbia> 	7 	*7*
	PUPS – Solidarity and Justice 		PUPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Party_of_United_Pensioners_of_Serbia> 	6 	*6*
	Serbian Movement Dveri – Patriotic Bloc 		Dveri <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dveri> 	6 	*6*
	For Reconciliation SPP–USS–DSHV 		SPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Justice_and_Reconciliation_Party> 	2 	*6*
	DSHV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Alliance_of_Croats_in_Vojvodina> 	1
	USS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Peasant_Party> 	1
	SNS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Progressive_Party> 	1
	Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> 	1
	We Must – Together 		Together <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Together_(Serbia)> 	5 	*5*
	Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians 		VMSZ/SVM <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Alliance_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians> 	5 	*5*
	Green–Left Front, Do not let Belgrade drown 		ZLF <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green%E2%80%93Left_Front> 	5 	*5*
	MPs not members of parliamentary groups 		SDAS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Party_of_Democratic_Action_of_Sand%C5%BEak> 	1 	*7*
	NN–IJS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
There%27s_no_Going_Back_%E2%80%93_Serbia_Is_Behind> 	1
	PVD/PDD <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Party_for_Democratic_Action> 	1
	SSD <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alliance_of_Social_Democrats_(Serbia)> 	1
	ZZV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Together_for_Vojvodina_(party)> 	1
	Independents <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> 	2


    Pre-election activities


      Government parties

Vučić hinted at a potential formation of a bloc or a movement in
September 2022, which he later revealed in March 2023 to be the People's
Movement for the State <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Movement_for_the_State> (NPZD).^[136] <#cite_note-:14-136>
^[137] <#cite_note-137> He said that NPZD would act as a "supra-party
movement" and that SNS would not be dissolved.^[138] <#cite_note-138>
Vučević confirmed that SNS would take part in the movement.^[139]
<#cite_note-:10-139> ^[140] <#cite_note-:11-140> Initially announced to
be formalised in May 2023, the date was subsequently moved towards
autumn 2023.^[141] <#cite_note-:102-141> ^[142] <#cite_note-142> As of
October 2023, the movement has not yet been formed.^[143] <#cite_note-:
18-143> Political commentators have pointed out that SPS is divided on
the issue of joining NPZD and that as a result, the formalisation of
NPZD was delayed.^[143] <#cite_note-:18-143> Predrag J. Marković
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predrag_J._Markovi%C4%87>, one of the
vice-presidents of SPS, has said that "SPS would lose its identity if it
joins [NPZD]".^[144] <#cite_note-144> Bojan Klačar, the executive
director of CeSID <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CeSID>, has said that
with the September 2023 announcement that the elections would be held on
17 December, "the creation of the Movement could be risky".^[145]
<#cite_note-145> Considering that NPZD was not mentioned at the main
board session of SNS in October 2023, Đorđe Vukadinović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C4%90or%C4%91e_Vukadinovi%C4%87> of /Nova srpska
politička misao <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nova_srpska_politi%C4%8Dka_misao>/ (NSPM) and political analyst Dragomir
Anđelković argued that NPZD could be used only as a slogan for the
upcoming elections.^[146] <#cite_note-146> Vučić, however, announced in
late October 2023 that NPZD will be formed "in the coming period".^[147]
<#cite_note-147> Healthy Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Healthy_Serbia>, led by Milan Stamatović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milan_Stamatovi%C4%87>, was announced as an addition to the SNS-led
coalition.^[148] <#cite_note-148>

Tomislav Žigmanov <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tomislav_%C5%BDigmanov>, the president of the Democratic Alliance of
Croats in Vojvodina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Alliance_of_Croats_in_Vojvodina> (DSHV), announced in October
2023 that DSHV would contest the 2023 election in an electoral alliance
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electoral_alliance>, with the
justification being "because minorities in Serbia do not have guaranteed
seats in the parliament".^[149] <#cite_note-149> Rasim Ljajić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rasim_Ljaji%C4%87>, the president of the Social
Democratic Party of Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Social_Democratic_Party_of_Serbia> (SDPS), announced that SDPS will
contest the elections with SNS again.^[150] <#cite_note-150> The Party
for Sandžak <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Party_for_Sand%C5%BEak&action=edit&redlink=1>, aligned with Ljajić
since 2004, announced that it would contest the elections alone and not
with SDPS.^[151] <#cite_note-151> Additionally, SNS and SPS announced
that they would not contest the parliamentary election together and that
SPS would again take part in the election JS and Greens of Serbia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greens_of_Serbia> (ZS).^[152]
<#cite_note-152> ^[153] <#cite_note-153>


      Opposition parties

After the dissolution of the UZPS coalition, SSP, Movement of Free
Citizens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Movement_of_Free_Citizens_(Serbia)>, Movement for Reversal <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Movement_for_Reversal>, and United Trade Unions of
Serbia Sloga <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_Trade_Unions_of_Serbia_%22Sloga%22>, formed the Ujedinjeni
parliamentary group in the National Assembly in August 2022.^[14]
<#cite_note-:1-14> ^[154] <#cite_note-154> Ujedinjeni changed its name
to Forward to Europe in July 2023.^[155] <#cite_note-155> Zdravko Ponoš
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zdravko_Pono%C5%A1>, the presidential
candidate of the UPZS coalition, left Narodna after the 2022
elections.^[156] <#cite_note-156> He formed the Serbia Centre <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbia_Centre> (SRCE) organisation in June 2022
and in July 2023 it was registered as a political party.^[157]
<#cite_note-:12-157> ^[158] <#cite_note-158> The Movement of Free
Serbia, which was also a member of the UZPS coalition, merged into DS in
September 2022.^[159] <#cite_note-159>

The We Must <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We_Must_(Serbia)> alliance
was also dissolved after the 2022 elections, but its member parties said
that they would continue cooperating in the National Assembly.^[127]
<#cite_note-:7-127> ^[160] <#cite_note-160> Together, with Aleksandar
Jovanović Ćuta <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_Jovanovi%C4%87_%C4%86uta>, Biljana Stojković <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biljana_Stojkovi%C4%87>, and Nebojša Zelenović
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neboj%C5%A1a_Zelenovi%C4%87> as its co-
presidents, was formed in June 2022 as a merger of Together for Serbia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Together_for_Serbia>, Ecological Uprising
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecological_Uprising> (EU), and Assembly
of Free Serbia.^[161] <#cite_note-161> ^[162] <#cite_note-:03-162>
Solidarity, which was also affiliated with the We Must alliance, merged
into Together in January 2023.^[163] <#cite_note-163> In August 2023,
Ćuta and other members of EU left Together and joined the parliamentary
group led by People's Movement of Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Movement_of_Serbia> (NPS).^[164] <#cite_note-164> ^[165]
<#cite_note-165> NDB announced in late June 2022 that it had adopted a
platform to work on becoming a registered political party; it began
collecting signatures in May 2023.^[166] <#cite_note-:04-166> ^[167]
<#cite_note-167> NDB also announced that it would rename itself to
Green–Left Front (ZLF).^[168] <#cite_note-:13-168> ZLF was formalised in
July 2023.^[169] <#cite_note-:52-169>

Within Narodna, a dispute between its president Vuk Jeremić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Jeremi%C4%87> and vice-president Miroslav
Aleksić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Miroslav_Aleksi%C4%87_(born_1978)> began in June 2023.^[170]
<#cite_note-170> Aleksić was eventually removed from the position of the
party's executive board in July 2023; he then publicly acknowledged the
conflict between him and Jeremić.^[171] <#cite_note-171> ^[172]
<#cite_note-172> Although a leadership election was scheduled for
October 2023, Aleksić left Narodna and reconstituted NPS in August
2023.^[173] <#cite_note-173> Together with Miloš Parandilović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milo%C5%A1_Parandilovi%C4%87>, the president of
the New Face of Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
New_Face_of_Serbia> (NLS), they formed a parliamentary group in the
National Assembly.^[174] <#cite_note-174>

Following his dismissal from JS, Basta formed the European Way Movement
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=European_Way_Movement&action=edit&redlink=1> (PEP), now portraying
himself as an opposition politician.^[175] <#cite_note-175> ^[176]
<#cite_note-:27-176> Mladen Mrdalj, a political scientist, criticised
Basta, describing him as an opportunist <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Political_opportunism>.^[176] <#cite_note-:27-176> PEP announced in
September 2023 that it would contest the upcoming elections.^[177]
<#cite_note-177> Besides Basta, former SNS-turned-opposition politicians
Zorana Mihajlović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Zorana_Mihajlovi%C4%87>, Dragan Šormaz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Dragan_%C5%A0ormaz>, and Stanislava Pak <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Stanislava_Pak> formed the Always for Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/
w/index.php?title=Always_for_Serbia&action=edit&redlink=1> organisation
in September 2023.^[178] <#cite_note-178> Opposition parties organising
the Serbia Against Violence protests refused to cooperate with them due
to formerly being aligned with SNS.^[179] <#cite_note-179>


      Election alliances

Borislav Novaković, Biljana Đorđević, Đorđe Pavićević, Robert Kozma,
Zoran Lutovac, Dragan Rakić, Marinika Tepić, Radomir Lazović, Nebojša
Zelenović, Pavle Grbović, Srđan Milivojević, Miroslav Aleksić, Đorđe
Miketić, Borko Stefanović, Željko Veselinović, and Janko Veselinović at
a press conference inside the National Assembly of Serbia in September
2023 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Dogovor_za_pobedu_(cropped).jpg>
Opposition parties organising the Serbia Against Violence protests
(representatives pictured) formed a joint coalition in October 2023

In an interview for newspaper /Nova <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nova_(Serbia)>/ in August 2023, Marinika Tepić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marinika_Tepi%C4%87>, one of the vice-presidents
of SSP, stated that the creation of an electoral alliance of political
parties that organise the Serbia Against Violence protests is
possible.^[180] <#cite_note-:15-180> "During this one year of work in
the National Assembly, and especially in these last three months during
the protests, we, [opposition parties], managed to build trust stronger
than ever before", Tepić said.^[180] <#cite_note-:15-180> It has been
noted that DS, SRCE, Together, and ZLF opposition parties have
intensively cooperated with each other, as early as April 2023.^[181]
<#cite_note-:16-181> ^[182] <#cite_note-182> DS, SRCE, and Together
signed a cooperation agreement in late August 2023, establishing greater
cooperation between the parties.^[183] <#cite_note-183> ^[184]
<#cite_note-184> Slobodan Cvejić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Slobodan_Cveji%C4%87> of SRCE added that "there is room for greater
coalition cooperation" between opposition parties.^[185] <#cite_note-185>

Radomir Lazović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radomir_Lazovi%C4%87> of
ZLF has also announced in July 2023 that ZLF prepared framework
principles of cooperation to achieve non-aggression among opposition
parties, joint control of elections, and consolidation of parties into a
bigger alliance.^[186] <#cite_note-186> Lazović has, however, opposed
the creation of a single coalition of all opposition parties, stating
that it could possibly lead to the loss of votes.^[187] <#cite_note-187>
PE member parties, ZLF, DS, Together, NPS, EU, and NLS signed an
agreement, titled Agreement for Victory, in late September 2023,
announcing joint support for calling snap elections and electoral
reforms.^[188] <#cite_note-188> Since then, the parties that signed the
agreement have held meetings on discussing the creation of a joint
electoral alliance; /N1/ reported that the distribution of seats among
parties in the alliance is "the biggest obstacle to the formation of a
single alliance".^[189] <#cite_note-189> ^[190] <#cite_note-190> At a 18
October press conference, Srđan Milivojević <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Sr%C4%91an_Milivojevi%C4%87> of DS, said that there were "no
dissonant voices" at the discussions about the creation of a joint
Serbia Against Violence alliance.^[191] <#cite_note-191> Nova–DS2P
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Party_(Serbia)> and the Social
Democratic Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Social_Democratic_Party_(Serbia)> (SDS), led by Boris Tadić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boris_Tadi%C4%87>, both expressed support for
joining the Serbia Against Violence alliance.^[192] <#cite_note-192>
^[193] <#cite_note-193> The agreement between the parties was reached on
26 October and the coalition, named Serbia Against Violence <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbia_Against_Violence_(coalition)> (SPN), was
formalised and presented to the public a day later.^[194] <#cite_note-:
39-194> ^[195] <#cite_note-195>

Aleksić has also proposed the formation of a "stronger, wider bloc" for
the upcoming elections; /Nova/ also reported that SRCE and Nova–DS2P
could take part in such an electoral alliance.^[196] <#cite_note-196>
^[197] <#cite_note-197> SDS held negotiations with Aleksić's NPS in
October 2023 about the formation of a joint coalition.^[198]
<#cite_note-198> Parandilović of NLS has also expressed his support for
the creation of a wide electoral alliance; Aleksandar Olenik <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aleksandar_Olenik>, a representative of Together
for Vojvodina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Together_for_Vojvodina_(party)> in the National Assembly, on the other
hand, has said that opposition parties should run on two electoral lists
instead.^[181] <#cite_note-:16-181> Ćuta has also expressed his support
for the creation of an alliance that would include opposition parties
from the left and right.^[199] <#cite_note-199> Milica Đurđević
Stamenkovski <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milica_%C4%90ur%C4%91evi%C4%87_Stamenkovski>, the president of the
Serbian Party Oathkeepers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbian_Party_Oathkeepers> (SSZ), expressed her opposition towards
creating a joint opposition alliance due to foreign policy
differences.^[200] <#cite_note-200>

Boško Obradović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bo%C5%A1ko_Obradovi%C4%87>, the president of Dveri <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dveri>, has also voiced his support for the
formation of a "state-building bloc" that would include SSZ and National
Democratic Alternative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)> (NADA); Obradović also added
that he also sees Narodna as a member in their bloc.^[201]
<#cite_note-201> Miloš Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87>, the president of the New Democratic Party of
Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Democratic_Party_of_Serbia>
(NDSS), stated that NADA would be open to cooperate with Dveri and SSZ,
while Jeremić has called for the formation of a coalition that would
include Dveri, SSZ, NADA, and Enough is Enough <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enough_is_Enough_(party)> (DJB).^[202]
<#cite_note-202> ^[203] <#cite_note-203> In October 2023, Dveri and SSZ
formalised a coalition, named National Gathering <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Gathering_(Serbia)> (NO), for the
upcoming elections; they also invited NADA and Narodna to join their
bloc.^[204] <#cite_note-:17-204> NADA, however, held negotiations with
Narodna instead.^[205] <#cite_note-205> ^[206] <#cite_note-206>
Negotiations between Dveri, SSZ, NADA, and Narodna were held in late
October 2023, however, the parties were unable to form a joint electoral
alliance due to SSZ rejecting the proposed document.^[207]
<#cite_note-207> ^[208] <#cite_note-208> Narodna and the Serbian Radical
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Radical_Party>, led by
Vojislav Šešelj <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vojislav_%C5%A0e%C5%A1elj>, opted to take part in the elections
independently.^[209] <#cite_note-209> ^[210] <#cite_note-210> DJB
initially announced that they would contest the elections independently,
saying that "there are no serious talks of forming one state-building
coalition".^[211] <#cite_note-211>


    Electoral lists

With the dissolution of the National Assembly and a call for elections
to be held on 17 December, the deadline to submit electoral lists was
set for 26 November.^[212] <#cite_note-212> The collective electoral
list was published by RIK on 1 December, with 2,818 candidates in
total.^[213] <#cite_note-213> The following table includes electoral
lists that were confirmed by RIK and that took part in the 2023
parliamentary election.^[214] <#cite_note-214> The electoral lists of
PEP, which submitted its electoral list under two Bunjevci minority
parties, and Pavle Bihali <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pavle_Bihali>
of Levijatan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leviathan_Movement>-led
Russian Minority Alliance were rejected by RIK due to not having enough
valid signatures.^[215] <#cite_note-215> ^[216] <#cite_note-
RIK_ALBANCI2-216> ^[217] <#cite_note-217>

^M — /National minority <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minority_group>
list/

# 	Ballot name 	Ballot carrier 	Main ideology 	Political position 	
Signatures 	Note

1

		

  * Aleksandar Vučić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Aleksandar_Vu%C4%8Di%C4%87> – Serbia Must Not Stop <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbia_Must_Not_Stop>^[218] <#cite_note-
    RIK_SNS-218>
  * SNS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Progressive_Party>, SDPS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Democratic_Party_of_Serbia>,
    PS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Movement_of_Socialists>, PUPS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Party_of_United_Pensioners_of_Serbia>, SNP <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_People%27s_Party_(2014)>, SPO
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Renewal_Movement>, NSS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Peasant_Party>, USS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Peasant_Party>, ZS <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Healthy_Serbia>, SL <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Serbian_Left_(2022)>, SSD <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Alliance_of_Social_Democrats_(Serbia)>

	Miloš Vučević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Vu%C4%8Devi%C4%87> 	Populism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Populism> 	Big tent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_tent> 	88,083 	

2

		

  * Ivica Dačić – Prime Minister of Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Ivica_Da%C4%8Di%C4%87_%E2%80%93_Prime_Minister_of_Serbia>^[219]
    <#cite_note-RIK_SPS-219>
  * SPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Party_of_Serbia>, JS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Serbia>, ZS <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greens_of_Serbia>

	Ivica Dačić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivica_Da%C4%8Di%C4%87> 	
Populism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Populism> 	Big tent <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_tent> 	19,618 	

3

		

  * Dr Vojislav Šešelj – Serbian Radical Party^[220] <#cite_note-220>
  * SRS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Radical_Party>

	Vojislav Šešelj <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vojislav_%C5%A0e%C5%A1elj> 	Ultranationalism <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Ultranationalism> 	Far-right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-
right> 	10,638 	

4

		

  * Milica Đurđević Stamenkovski – Boško Obradović <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bo%C5%A1ko_Obradovi%C4%87> – National
    Gathering <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Gathering_(Serbia)> – State-Building Force – Serbian Party
    Oathkeepers – Serbian Movement Dveri^[221] <#cite_note-NO_RIK-221>
  * SSZ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Party_Oathkeepers>, Dveri
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dveri>, BPS

	Milica Đurđević Stamenkovski <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milica_%C4%90ur%C4%91evi%C4%87_Stamenkovski> 	Ultranationalism <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultranationalism> 	Far-right <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-right> 	11,896 	

5

		

  * Dr Miloš Jovanović – NADA for Serbia – Serbian coalition NADA –
    National Democratic Alternative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)> – New Democratic Party of
    Serbia (New DSS) – Movement for the Restoration of the Kingdom of
    Serbia (POKS) – Vojislav Mihailović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Vojislav_Mihailovi%C4%87>^[222] <#cite_note-RIK_NADA-222>
  * NDSS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Democratic_Party_of_Serbia>,
    POKS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Movement_for_the_Restoration_of_the_Kingdom_of_Serbia>

	Miloš Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	National conservatism <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_conservatism> 	Right-wing <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-wing> 	10,381 	

6

		

  * Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians – For Our President, For Our
    Community, For the Future!^[223] <#cite_note-RIK_VMSZ-223>
  * VMSZ/SVM <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Alliance_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians>

	Bálint Pásztor <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%C3%A1lint_P%C3%A1sztor>
	Minority politics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minority_politics> 	
Centre-right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centre-right_politics> 	11,137 	

^M

7

		

  * Serbia Against Violence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Serbia_Against_Violence_(coalition)> – Miroslav Miki Aleksić
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miroslav_Aleksi%C4%87_(born_1978)> –
    Marinika Tepić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Marinika_Tepi%C4%87>^[224] <#cite_note-RIK_SPN-224>
  * SSP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Party_of_Freedom_and_Justice>,
    NPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Movement_of_Serbia>,
    ZLF <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green%E2%80%93Left_Front>, DS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_(Serbia)>, Zajedno
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Together_(Serbia)>, SRCE <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbia_Centre>, EU <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Ecological_Uprising>, PSG <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Movement_of_Free_Citizens_(Serbia)>, NLS <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/New_Face_of_Serbia>, PZP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Movement_for_Reversal>, USS Sloga <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    United_Trade_Unions_of_Serbia_%22Sloga%22>, Fatherland <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatherland_(movement)>, GDP, PR/RP

	Radomir Lazović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radomir_Lazovi%C4%87> 	
Anti-corruption <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-corruption> 	Big
tent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_tent> 	17,680 	

8

		

  * Usame Zukorlić – United for Justice – Justice and Reconciliation
    Party – Bosniaks of Sandžak, Tomislav Žigmanov <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomislav_%C5%BDigmanov> – Democratic Alliance
    of Croats in Vojvodina^[225] <#cite_note-RIK_UZP-225>
  * SPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Justice_and_Reconciliation_Party>, DSHV <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Democratic_Alliance_of_Croats_in_Vojvodina>

	Usame Zukorlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usame_Zukorli%C4%87> 	
Minority politics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minority_politics> 	5,580 	

^M

9

		

  * SDA of Sandžak – dr Sulejman Ugljanin <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Sulejman_Ugljanin>^[226] <#cite_note-RIK_SDAS-226>
  * SDAS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Party_of_Democratic_Action_of_Sand%C5%BEak>

	Selma Kučević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Selma_Ku%C4%8Devi%C4%87> 	
Minority politics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minority_politics> 	
Right-wing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-wing> 	5,369 	

^M

10

		

  * Together for the Future and Development – Coalition for Peace and
    Tolerance <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Coalition_for_Peace_and_Tolerance>^[227] <#cite_note-RIK_KZMT-227>
  * ZBR <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=For_the_Future_and_Development&action=edit&redlink=1>, VNS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vlach_National_Party>, MPSZ/GSM
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_Civic_Alliance_(Serbia)>,
    DZH <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Union_of_Croats>,
    GSGS, VP, SCG, BGS, TS, SJ, UŽRMNMS, UBR

	Jahja Fehratović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jahja_Fehratovi%C4%87>
	Minority politics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minority_politics> 	
5,373 	

^M

11

		

  * People's Party – Safe Choice. Serious People – Vuk Jeremić, dr Sanda
    Rašković Ivić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Sanda_Ra%C5%A1kovi%C4%87_Ivi%C4%87>, Siniša Kovačević <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sini%C5%A1a_Kova%C4%8Devi%C4%87>, Vladimir
    Gajić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Gaji%C4%87>, Marina
    Lipovac Tanasković <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=Marina_Lipovac_Tanaskovi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1>^[228]
    <#cite_note-RIK_NARODNA-228>
  * Narodna <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Party_(Serbia,_2017)>

	Vuk Jeremić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Jeremi%C4%87> 	
Conservatism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conservatism> 	Right-wing
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-wing> 	11,904 	

12

		

  * Saša Radulović (Enough is Enough – DJB) – Duško Vujošević <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Du%C5%A1ko_Vujo%C5%A1evi%C4%87>, Boris Tadić
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boris_Tadi%C4%87> (Social Democratic
    Party – SDS) – Ana Pejić (Stolen Babies) – Good Morning Serbia
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Good_Morning_Serbia>^[229]
    <#cite_note-RIK_DJS-229>
  * DJB <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enough_is_Enough_(party)>, SDS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Democratic_Party_(Serbia)>, OBAP

	Saša Radulović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C5%A1a_Radulovi%C4%87>
	Anti-Ohrid Agreement <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ohrid_Agreement_(2023)> 	10,534 	

13

		

  * The Political Battle of the Albanians Continues <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albanian_Coalition_of_Pre%C5%A1evo_Valley> –
    Shaip Kamberi^[230] <#cite_note-PIK_PVD-230>
  * PVD/PDD <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Party_for_Democratic_Action>,
    PD, LPD, UDS

	Shaip Kamberi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shaip_Kamberi> 	Minority
politics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minority_politics> 	5,242 	

^M

14

		

  * We–The Voice from the People, prof dr Branimir Nestorović^[231]
    <#cite_note-RIK_27Nov-231>
  * MI–GIN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    We%E2%80%93The_Voice_from_the_People>

	Branimir Nestorović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Branimir_Nestorovi%C4%87> 	Russophilia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Russophilia> 	Right-wing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right-wing> 	
10,104 	

15

		

  * Serbia in the West – Zoran Vuletić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Zoran_Vuleti%C4%87_(politician)> – Nemanja Milošević – Experts
    Should Have A Say – Vladimir Kovačević^[231] <#cite_note-RIK_27Nov-231>
  * Nova–D2SP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Party_(Serbia)>, GDF
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civic_Democratic_Forum>, Libdem, Glas

	Vladimir Kovačević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vladimir_Kova%C4%8Devi%C4%87_(businessman)> 	Pro-Europeanism <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pro-Europeanism> 	Centre <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrism> 	10,328 	

16

		

  * Russian Party – Slobodan Nikolić^[232] <#cite_note-RIK_RSLDP-232>
  * RS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Party_(Serbia)>, NKPJ
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Communist_Party_of_Yugoslavia>

	Slobodan Nikolić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Slobodan_Nikoli%C4%87_(politician)> 	Russophilia <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russophilia> 	5,211 	

^M

17

		

  * Čedomir Jovanović – It Must Be Different^[232] <#cite_note-
    RIK_RSLDP-232>
  * LDP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Liberal_Democratic_Party_(Serbia)>^[a] <#cite_note-234> 

	Čedomir Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%C4%8Cedomir_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	Liberalism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Liberalism> 	Centre <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrism> 	10,300 	

18

		

  * Albanian Democratic Alternative – United Valley^[216] <#cite_note-
    RIK_ALBANCI2-216>
  * APN/AZP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternative_for_Changes>, LR/PR

	Visar Mehmeti <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Visar_Mehmeti&action=edit&redlink=1> 	Minority politics <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minority_politics> 	5,945 	

^M


    Campaign

Croatian daily newspaper /Večernji list <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ve%C4%8Dernji_list>/ has described the 2023 election as "the most
uncertain election since 2012".^[234] <#cite_note-235> Political
scientist and journalist Aleksandar Ivković argued that the campaign has
been "dirty", listing graffitis, posters, music videos, and tabloid
media content that were perpetrated against opposition parties.^[235]
<#cite_note-:42-236> "While the content is largely unchanged, it seems
that SNS is now really 'firing from all guns blazing' when it comes to
negative campaigning against the opposition, which was not the case
before, at least not to such an extent", Ivković has said.^[235]
<#cite_note-:42-236> Political scientist Boban Stojanović estimated that
"political tensions are not decreasing" and that "political violence
will be seen until the end of the election campaign".^[236]
<#cite_note-237> Stojanović also added that the 2023 "elections are even
more uncertain than the previous ones".^[237] <#cite_note-238>

During its visit in Serbia, PACE representatives concluded that the
campaign was met with polarisation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Political_polarization> and intimidation from the government.^[238]
<#cite_note-239> Raša Nedeljkov from CRTA said that he expects "an
intense and dirty campaign in which hate speech will be the backbone of
the campaign"; he noted the targeting of political opponents, media
representatives, civil society organisations, and election observers as
examples.^[239] <#cite_note-240> CRTA claimed that voter intimidation
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voter_intimidation> has increased during
the campaign period, stating that in its research "door-to-door
campaigning is one of the basic activities as a form of direct,
immediate communication between parties and voters".^[240]
<#cite_note-241> During the first three weeks of the election campaign,
CRTA reported in its analysis that "inequality, suspicions and threats"
were seen, claiming that government parties had significant advantage
due to the abuse of institutions.^[241] <#cite_note-242> Amidst the
campaign, the Centre for Investigative Journalism of Serbia (CINS) also
released a report in which it was revealed that during the campaign
period an organisation operating a call centre was tasked with asking
voters whether they would vote for SNS or not.^[242] <#cite_note-:
43-243> CINS also reported that the call centre also possessed a
database of voters, with voters sorted in groups based on whether they
are a member of SNS, a SNS voter, or a non-SNS voter.^[242]
<#cite_note-:43-243>

"It's Up To Us Too", an informal organisation of high school students,
launched a campaign in October 2023 named "It's Up To You Too" (/I ti se
pitaš/), aimed at first-time voters in the 2023 parliamentary
election.^[243] <#cite_note-244> The Civic Initiatives, a non-
governmental organisation, also launched a campaign with activists,
professors, and public figures to boost the turnout and the number of
controllers (members of polling stations) in the 2023 election.^[244]
<#cite_note-245> A group of intellectuals, including actors Svetlana
Bojković <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svetlana_Bojkovi%C4%87>, Dragan
Bjelogrlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dragan_Bjelogrli%C4%87>,
former Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Serbian_Academy_of_Sciences_and_Arts> president Vladimir S. Kostić
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_S._Kosti%C4%87>, legal scholar
and judge Miodrag Majić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Miodrag_Maji%C4%87>, and former University of Belgrade rector Ivanka
Popović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivanka_Popovi%C4%87>, formed the
initiative "ProClaim" on 7 November 2023 to boost the electoral turnout
for the 2023 election and "stop the explosion of crime and corruption in
society".^[245] <#cite_note-246> The ProGlas initiative received than
more 100,000 signatures of support by 15 November.^[246]
<#cite_note-247> Regarding ProGlas, political scientist Duško
Radosavljević said that "if we will remember this campaign for
something, it will be because of the attempt by professional and
respected people to ask for a new understanding of politics. For me,
that is a force that provides a real chance for Serbia to be
better".^[247] <#cite_note-248>

The 2023 parliamentary election campaign also saw the increase of usage
of the social media platform TikTok <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
TikTok> among politicians.^[248] <#cite_note-:44-249> ^[249]
<#cite_note-250> Vučić, Tadić, Tepić, SPS president Ivica Dačić
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivica_Da%C4%8Di%C4%87>, and finance
minister Siniša Mali <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sini%C5%A1a_Mali>
all joined the platform in November 2023, in order to present themselves
to younger voters.^[248] <#cite_note-:44-249> ^[250] <#cite_note-251>
Jelena Kleut, a professor at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University
of Belgrade <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Faculty_of_Philosophy,_University_of_Belgrade>, said that "knowing the
Serbian Progressive Party, this move is based on data suggesting that
the TikTok electorate might be interested in going to the polls in the
election".^[248] <#cite_note-:44-249>


      Slogans

Party/coalition 	Original slogan 	English translation 	Refs
	Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alliance_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians> 	

  * Elnökünkért, közösségünkért, a jövőért!
  * Za našeg predsednika, za našu zajednicu, za budućnost!

	For our President, for our community, for the future! 	^[251]
<#cite_note-VMSZ_slogan-252>
	National Democratic Alternative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)> 	Promene sad! 	Changes now! 	
^[252] <#cite_note-:32-253>
	People's Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Party_(Serbia,_2017)> 	Siguran izbor. Ozbiljni ljudi 	Safe
choice. Serious people 	^[253] <#cite_note-254>
	Serbia Against Violence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbia_Against_Violence_(coalition)> 	Promena je počela! 	Change has
begun! 	^[254] <#cite_note-255> ^[255] <#cite_note-256>
	Serbian Radical Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbian_Radical_Party> 	Otadžbina Srbija. Majka Rusija 	Fatherland
Serbia. Mother Russia 	^[256] <#cite_note-257>
	SDS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Democratic_Party_(Serbia)>–
DJB <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enough_is_Enough_(party)>–OBAP 	Dobro
jutro Srbijo! 	Good morning Serbia! 	^[257] <#cite_note-258>
	SNS coalition <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Together_We_Can_Do_Everything> 	Srbija ne sme da stane
Snaga je u ljudima 	Serbia must not stop
The power is in the people 	^[258] <#cite_note-259> ^[259] <#cite_note-260>
	SPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Party_of_Serbia>–JS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Serbia>–ZS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greens_of_Serbia> 	Ivica Dačić – Premijer Srbije 	
Ivica Dačić – Prime Minister of Serbia 	^[260] <#cite_note-261>


      Debates

2023 Serbian parliamentary election debates
Date 	Time 	Organizers 	    P  Present    A  Absent invitee   I 
Invitee   N  Non-invitee 
SNS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Progressive_Party> 	SPS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Party_of_Serbia> 	SPN <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbia_Against_Violence_(coalition)> 	NO <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Gathering_(Serbia)> 	NADA <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)> 	Narodna
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_Party_(Serbia,_2017)> 	DJS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Good_Morning_Serbia> 	SRS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Radical_Party> 	VMSZ/SVM <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alliance_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians> 	SPP <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_and_Reconciliation_Party>–DSHV <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Alliance_of_Croats_in_Vojvodina> 	Refs
									
14 Sep 	10:05 am 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Milenko Jovanov <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milenko_Jovanov> 	*N* 	*P*
Zoran Lutovac <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoran_Lutovac> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[261] <#cite_note-262>
5 Oct 	10:05 am 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Vladimir Orlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Orli%C4%87> 	*N*
	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Vuk Jeremić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Jeremi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	*N* 	^[262] <#cite_note-263>
10 Oct 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Vladimir Orlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Orli%C4%87> 	*P*
Snežana Paunović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sne%C5%BEana_Paunovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Marinika Tepić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marinika_Tepi%C4%87> 	*P*
Boško Obradović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bo%C5%A1ko_Obradovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[263]
<#cite_note-264>
24 Oct 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Vladimir Orlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Orli%C4%87> 	*P*
Đorđe Milićević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%C4%90or%C4%91e_Mili%C4%87evi%C4%87> 	*P*
Zoran Lutovac <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoran_Lutovac> 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Vuk Jeremić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Jeremi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	*N* 	^[264] <#cite_note-265>
26 Oct 	10:05 am 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*N* 	*P*
Snežana Paunović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sne%C5%BEana_Paunovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*P*
Milica Đurđević Stamenkovski <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milica_%C4%90ur%C4%91evi%C4%87_Stamenkovski> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	^[265] <#cite_note-266>
31 Oct 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Siniša Mali <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sini%C5%A1a_Mali> 	*P*
Dejan Radenković <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dejan_Radenkovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Biljana Đorđević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Biljana_%C4%90or%C4%91evi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*P*
Predrag Marsenić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predrag_Marseni%C4%87> 	
*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[266] <#cite_note-267>
2 Nov 	9:00 pm 	Insajder <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insajder> 	*N* 	
*N* 	*P*
Miroslav Aleksić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Miroslav_Aleksi%C4%87_(born_1978)> 	*P*
Boško Obradović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bo%C5%A1ko_Obradovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[267]
<#cite_note-268>
9 Nov 	9:00 pm 	Insajder <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insajder> 	*P*
Vladimir Orlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Orli%C4%87> 	*P*
Branko Ružić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Branko_Ru%C5%BEi%C4%87_(politician)> 	*P*
Radomir Lazović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radomir_Lazovi%C4%87> 	
*N* 	*P*
Miloš Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[268]
<#cite_note-269>
10 Nov 	8:05 pm 	RTV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Vojvodina> 	*P*
Marina Raguš <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marina_Ragu%C5%A1> 	*P*
Snežana Paunović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sne%C5%BEana_Paunovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*P*
Ivan Kostić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ivan_Kosti%C4%87_(Serbian_politician)> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Aleksandar Šešelj <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_%C5%A0e%C5%A1elj> 	*N* 	*N* 	^[269] <#cite_note-270>
14 Nov 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Vladimir Đukanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vladimir_%C4%90ukanovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Slavica Đukić Dejanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Slavica_%C4%90uki%C4%87_Dejanovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Radomir Lazović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radomir_Lazovi%C4%87> 	
*N* 	*P*
Miloš Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[270]
<#cite_note-271>
16 Nov 	10:05 am 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Elvira Kovács <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elvira_Kov%C3%A1cs> 	*P*
Usame Zukorlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usame_Zukorli%C4%87> 	
^[271] <#cite_note-272>
16 Nov 	9:00 pm 	Insajder <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insajder> 	*N* 	*P*
Snežana Paunović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sne%C5%BEana_Paunovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Borko Stefanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Borko_Stefanovi%C4%87> 	
*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Stefan Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Stefan_Jovanovi%C4%87_(politician)> 	*P*
Goran Bogdanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Goran_Bogdanovi%C4%87_(politician)> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[272] <#cite_note-273>
17 Nov 	8:05 pm 	RTV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Vojvodina> 	*P*
Milenko Jovanov <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milenko_Jovanov> 	*N* 	*P*
Janko Veselinović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Janko_Veselinovi%C4%87_(lawyer)> 	*N* 	*P*
Predrag Marsenić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predrag_Marseni%C4%87> 	
*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Elvira Kovács <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elvira_Kov%C3%A1cs> 	*N* 	
^[273] <#cite_note-274>
20 Nov 	9:17 am 	Happy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nacionalna_Televizija_Happy> 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Aleksandar Jovanović Ćuta <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_Jovanovi%C4%87_%C4%86uta> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Vojislav Šešelj <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vojislav_%C5%A0e%C5%A1elj> 	*N* 	*N* 	^[274] <#cite_note-275>
21 Nov 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Ana Brnabić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ana_Brnabi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*P*
Aleksandar Jovanović Ćuta <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_Jovanovi%C4%87_%C4%86uta> 	*P*
Boško Obradović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bo%C5%A1ko_Obradovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*P*
Dušan Tufegdžić <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Du%C5%A1an_Tufegd%C5%BEi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	*N* 	^[275] <#cite_note-276>
23 Nov 	10:05 am 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*N* 	*P*
Đorđe Milićević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%C4%90or%C4%91e_Mili%C4%87evi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Vuk Jeremić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Jeremi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	*N* 	^[276] <#cite_note-277>
23 Nov 	9:00 pm 	Insajder <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insajder> 	*N* 	*P*
Slavica Đukić Dejanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Slavica_%C4%90uki%C4%87_Dejanovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Slobodan Cvejić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slobodan_Cveji%C4%87> 	*P*
Goran Igić <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Goran_Igi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> 	*N* 	*P*
Vuk Jeremić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Jeremi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	*N* 	^[277] <#cite_note-278>
29 Nov 	9:00 pm 	N1 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N1_(TV_channel)> 	*A*
	*A* 	*P*
Miroslav Aleksić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Miroslav_Aleksi%C4%87_(born_1978)> 	*P*
Boško Obradović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bo%C5%A1ko_Obradovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Miloš Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Vuk Jeremić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Jeremi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	*N* 	^[278] <#cite_note-279>
30 Nov 	10:08 am 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Marina Raguš <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marina_Ragu%C5%A1> 	*N* 	*N*
	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Boris Tadić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boris_Tadi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	^[279] <#cite_note-280>
30 Nov 	9:00 pm 	Insajder <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insajder> 	*N* 	*P*
Vladimir Đukić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_%C4%90uki%C4%87> 	*P*
Dragan Delić <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Dragan_Deli%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> 	*P*
Goran Igić <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Goran_Igi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> 	*N* 	*P*
Aleksandar Radojević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_Radojevi%C4%87_(politician)> 	*P*
Dejan Žujović <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Dejan_%C5%BDujovi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	
^[280] <#cite_note-281>
5 Dec 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Vladimir Orlić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Orli%C4%87> 	*P*
Đorđe Milićević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%C4%90or%C4%91e_Mili%C4%87evi%C4%87> 	*P*
Zdravko Ponoš <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zdravko_Pono%C5%A1> 	*N* 	*P*
Miloš Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[281]
<#cite_note-282>
7 Dec 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Igor Simić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Igor_Simi%C4%87> 	*P*
Snežana Paunović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sne%C5%BEana_Paunovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Miroslav Aleksić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Miroslav_Aleksi%C4%87_(born_1978)> 	*P*
Milica Đurđević Stamenkovski <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milica_%C4%90ur%C4%91evi%C4%87_Stamenkovski> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	^[282] <#cite_note-283>
7 Dec 	10:07 am 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*N* 	*P*
Ivica Dačić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivica_Da%C4%8Di%C4%87> 	*N* 	
*N* 	*P*
Miloš Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[283]
<#cite_note-284>
7 Dec 	9:00 pm 	Insajder <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insajder> 	*N* 	*P*
Dejan Radenković <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dejan_Radenkovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Dušan Nikezić <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Du%C5%A1an_Nikezi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> 	*P*
Tamara Milenković Kerković <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tamara_Milenkovi%C4%87_Kerkovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Predrag Marsenić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predrag_Marseni%C4%87> 	
*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[284] <#cite_note-285>
12 Dec 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Siniša Mali <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sini%C5%A1a_Mali> 	*P*
Dušan Bajatović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Du%C5%A1an_Bajatovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Dušan Nikezić <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Du%C5%A1an_Nikezi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*P*
Saša Radulović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C5%A1a_Radulovi%C4%87>
	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	^[285] <#cite_note-286>
13 Dec 	9:00 pm 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Igor Simić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Igor_Simi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*P*
Marinika Tepić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marinika_Tepi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*P*
Miloš Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Milo%C5%A1_Jovanovi%C4%87> 	*P*
Vuk Jeremić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Jeremi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*N* 	
*N* 	*N* 	^[286] <#cite_note-287>
14 Dec 	10:05 am 	RTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Radio_Television_of_Serbia> 	*P*
Igor Simić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Igor_Simi%C4%87> 	*N* 	*P*
Miroslav Aleksić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Miroslav_Aleksi%C4%87_(born_1978)> 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	*N* 	
^[287] <#cite_note-288>


      Issues

Petronijević Terzić has argued that opposition parties should work on
covering all polling stations with controllers and bring abstainers and
those that are undecided, but also opposed the outgoing government, to
the polls.^[99] <#cite_note-:06-99> Shortly before the election was
called, Bursać has also predicted that the campaign would be filled with
"negative topics" such as the ongoing tensions with Kosovo, jeopardised
foreign policy positions due to the tensions with Kosovo, rising prices,
and the mass shootings that occurred in May 2023.^[99] <#cite_note-:
06-99> Vojislav Mihailović of CRTA has said that opposition parties
should put local politics, economy, corruption, crime and violence, as
its main topics while campaigning, while he also said that "citizens are
most concerned about economic issues" in opinion polls that CRTA
conducted.^[288] <#cite_note-289>

Bojan Bilbija, a /Politika <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politika>/
journalist, Zoran Panović, a Demostat journalist, and Miloš Garić, the
editor-in-chief of /Kosovo Online/, all agreed that economic issues and
the North Kosovo crisis would be the main issues of the elections.^[289]
<#cite_note-290> Vladimir Pejić, the director of Agency Faktor Plus,
listed the North Kosovo crisis, economic issues, and the fight against
crime and corruption as the main issues of the election.^[290]
<#cite_note-291> Milivojević and political consultant Nikola Tomić named
Kosovo as the "absolutely dominant" issue for the upcoming
elections.^[291] <#cite_note-292> Klačar named living standards,
inflation and prices, Kosovo, foreign policy positions, and European
Union membership as main issues.^[292] <#cite_note-293> Boban Stojanović
listed living standards, inflation, and Kosovo as main topics, also
claiming that "there will also be enormous pressure on SNS voters, on
public sector employees, and blackmailing".^[293] <#cite_note-294>


      Party campaigns

According to the preliminary report of the Agency for the Prevention of
Corruption from 14 December, SNS spent € <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Euro>4,500,000 during the campaign period, SPS spent € <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euro>1,600,000 while VMSZ spent around € <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euro>100,000.^[294] <#cite_note-:46-295> From the
opposition, Serbia on the West alliance spent more than € <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euro>200,000, SPN spent € <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euro>82,000, Narodna spent € <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euro>46,000, We–The Voice from the People
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We%E2%80%93The_Voice_from_the_People>
spent € <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euro>4,490, and SRS spent €
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euro>1,500.^[294] <#cite_note-:46-295>
From minority parties, the Russian Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Russian_Party_(Serbia)> spent € <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Euro>162,000.^[294] <#cite_note-:46-295>


        Serbian Progressive Party

Aleksandar Vučić at the Russian Duma in Moscow, Russia in 2019 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Aleksandar_Vu%C4%8Di%C4%87_2019_(cropped).jpg>
Despite no longer being president of SNS, Vučić has mainly represented
the party throughout the election campaign

Vučević announced that SNS would begin its campaign in late October,
after the 15-year anniversary of the founding assembly of SNS.^[295]
<#cite_note-296> Despite this, SNS organised gatherings with its
supporters before the 15-year celebration to promote the party for the
upcoming elections.^[296] <#cite_note-297> SNS received an endorsement
by its former president Vučić, saying that "he will not stay on the
sideline and will not be neutral"; he also announced that Tomislav
Nikolić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomislav_Nikoli%C4%87>, former
president of Serbia and president of SNS, would also participate in the
campaign.^[297] <#cite_note-298> ^[298] <#cite_note-299> Stefan
Krkobabić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan_Krkobabi%C4%87>, the
leader of Party of United Pensioners of Serbia <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PUPS_%E2%80%93_Solidarity_and_Justice> (PUPS) in
the National Assembly, also expressed his support for SNS and said that
PUPS would campaign on introducing a guaranteed social pension <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_pension>.^[299] <#cite_note-300> The
Strength of Serbia Movement <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Strength_of_Serbia_Movement>, a SNS ally since 2010,^[300]
<#cite_note-301> announced that they would not contest the 2023
parliamentary election; the Serbian Renewal Movement <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_Renewal_Movement> of Vuk Drašković
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vuk_Dra%C5%A1kovi%C4%87> did not sign a
cooperation agreement with SNS for the 2023 election but they also
announced that two of its candidates would still contest the election on
the SNS electoral list.^[301] <#cite_note-302> Individuals who were
formerly critical of SNS and Vučić, including Tatjana Macura <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tatjana_Macura>, formerly aligned with DJB and now
a co-president of Party of Modern Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Party_of_Modern_Serbia>, Radoslav Milojičić <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Radoslav_Miloji%C4%8Di%C4%87>, formerly aligned with DS and now the
president of Serbian Left <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbian_Left_(2022)>, and Dejan Bulatović <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Dejan_Bulatovi%C4%87>, formerly aligned with SSP and now the
president of Alliance of Social Democrats, were all announced as
candidates of the SNS electoral list for the 2023 election.^[302]
<#cite_note-303>

Despite no longer being president of SNS, but still serving as president
of Serbia, Vučić has been the main representative of SNS in the election
campaign.^[303] <#cite_note-304> ^[304] <#cite_note-305> Vučić himself
is also not a candidate in any elections.^[305] <#cite_note-306> Vučić
has strongly criticised the opposition, saying that "every vote for the
opposition is a vote for the president of the Party of Freedom and
Justice, Dragan Đilas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dragan_%C4%90ilas>,
a vote for the independence of Kosovo, and for the introduction of
sanctions to Russia".^[306] <#cite_note-:54-307> Despite not being
affiliated with SPN, Vučić has also alleged that "when people vote for
[Boško] Obradović and [Miloš] Jovanović, they know that they are voting
for Đilas, Dragan Šolak <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Dragan_%C5%A0olak_(businessman)> and all of them".^[306] <#cite_note-:
54-307> Vučić has also portrayed the election as "between the past, the
parties of the former regime that would return [Serbia] to the past, and
the future".^[307] <#cite_note-308> In an interview, Vučić alleged that
"there is a plan of foreign governments to overthrow SNS"; Vučević
alleged the same.^[308] <#cite_note-309> ^[309] <#cite_note-310> Vučić
has also alleged that the entire opposition is controlled by
Đilas.^[310] <#cite_note-311> Minister Aleksandar Martinović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aleksandar_Martinovi%C4%87> also alleged that the
"opposition wants to provoke a civil war", while Brnabić said that "the
goal of the opposition is to create chaos and demonstrations after 17
December".^[311] <#cite_note-312> ^[312] <#cite_note-313> CRTA
criticised the statements of Martinović and Brnabić, saying that "in
order to calm tensions in the public, intimidating citizens and
encouraging an atmosphere of fear in the election campaign should
stop".^[313] <#cite_note-314> Opposition figures such as Lazović,
Obradović, and Jovanović also condemned the statements of Martinović and
Brnabić.^[314] <#cite_note-315>

Vučić announced on 29 October that the government of Serbia would by 1
December payout DIN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_dinar> 10,000
to beneficiaries of social assistance, of which there are 170,000 in
Serbia, to blind, demented, and elderly persons, of which there are
51,000, and that students would receive discounts on train and plane
tickets.^[315] <#cite_note-316> Despite the government denying that this
decision would influence the voters, Nemanja Nenadić, from non-profit
organisation Transparency Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Transparency_Serbia>, listed the payouts and discounts as "one of the
ways to subtly influence the will of the citizens, to make them think
that the government makes concessions to them".^[316] <#cite_note-317>
In response to Vučić's campaign, DS submitted a report to the Anti-
Corruption Agency, alleging that Vučić is leading the SNS campaign
despite being only head of state and that Vučić is allegedly abusing
power to boost SNS in the elections.^[317] <#cite_note-:62-318> The
Bureau of Social Research (BIRODI) also claimed that Vučić violated
Article 40 of the Law on Prevention of Corruption.^[317] <#cite_note-:
62-318> Zoran Čvorović, a professor at the Faculty of Law <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Belgrade_Faculty_of_Law>, argued
that as president of Serbia, Vučić violated the constitution due to him
being listed as the representatives of all SNS-led lists in the 2023
elections.^[318] <#cite_note-319> RIK rejected all 15 citizens'
complaints related to Vučić being listed in the name of the SNS-led
electoral list, despite not taking part in the elections, saying that
"Vučić has agreed on paper for his name to be mentioned on the electoral
list".^[319] <#cite_note-320> The government of Serbia introduced more
populist measures in late November, such as DIN <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serbian_dinar> 10,000 payouts to high school
students.^[320] <#cite_note-321>

SNS began collecting signatures for its electoral list on 1
November.^[321] <#cite_note-322> According to media reports, SNS
collected over 83,000 signatures by the end of the day.^[322]
<#cite_note-323> SNS submitted its list to RIK a day later, with 92,637
signatures in total.^[323] <#cite_note-324> RIK confirmed its list on 3
November with 88,083 valid signatures collected.^[218] <#cite_note-
RIK_SNS-218> Vučić and SNS held a campaign meeting in Leskovac on 5
November, at which Vučić promised to raise salaries while also
criticising the SPN alliance.^[324] <#cite_note-325> ^[325]
<#cite_note-326> Orlić and Nevena Đurić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nevena_%C4%90uri%C4%87>, vice-presidents of SNS, campaigned in Ruma
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruma>, where they pledged citizens more
investments in infrastructure, education, and technology.^[326]
<#cite_note-327> Another campaign meeting was held on 9 November in
Pirot <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pirot>, featuring Vučić, Brnabić,
Vučević, Stamatović, and PUPS leader Milan Krkobabić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milan_Krkobabi%C4%87> as speakers.^[327]
<#cite_note-328> At a campaign rally in Smederevo <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smederevo>, Vučić said that "if the opposition
wins in the next election, I will resign as president of Serbia".^[328]
<#cite_note-329> SNS has also campaigned on improving the status of
women and introducing more mammograms <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mammogram> in Serbian hospitals.^[329] <#cite_note-330> ^[330]
<#cite_note-331> SNS has also expressed its support for the accession of
Serbia to the European Union.^[331] <#cite_note-:45-332> Nikolić made
his first public appearance since 2017 at the SNS convention in Belgrade
on 2 December.^[332] <#cite_note-333> At the conference, Aleksandar "Aca
Rošavi" Vidojević, a close associate of convicted criminal Veljko
Belivuk, was also present.^[333] <#cite_note-334> SNS held its last
convention in Novi Sad on 13 December.^[334] <#cite_note-335>


SPS, JS, and ZS signed a cooperation agreement on 1 November, officially
announcing that they would contest the elections together under the same
electoral list name, "Ivica Dačić – Prime Minister of Serbia", that they
contested in the 2022 parliamentary election.^[335] <#cite_note-:
112-336> The SPS-led coalition submitted its list to RIK on 2 November,
with more than 20,000 signatures.^[336] <#cite_note-337> RIK confirmed
their list on 4 November with 19,618 valid signatures in total.^[219]
<#cite_note-RIK_SPS-219> Boban Stojanović said that RIK should have
rejected the SPS electoral list because a number of signatures of
support were certified by notaries who do not exist in the notaries
database.^[337] <#cite_note-338> People's Party of Srpska, a political
party in Republika Srpska <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Republika_Srpska>, expressed their support for SPS in November
2023.^[338] <#cite_note-339>

Despite being a coalition government partner with SNS since 2012, SPS
official Dušan Bajatović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Du%C5%A1an_Bajatovi%C4%87> has been a target of attacks in articles
published by pro-government media.^[339] <#cite_note-340> During the
campaign period, SPS has presented themselves as "guarantees of
political stability" while they also expressed their support for youth
rights and youth activism.^[340] <#cite_note-341> ^[341]
<#cite_note-342> Dačić has also tried to portray the coalition as
socialist; while campaigning in Ljubovija <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Ljubovija>, Dačić said that "by voting for the list Ivica Dačić –
Prime Minister of Serbia, you are also voting for patriotism and
socialism".^[342] <#cite_note-343> While campaigning in Mrčajevci
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mr%C4%8Dajevci>, Dačić also said that the
SPS coalition supports free education, free universal health care, and
social funds.^[343] <#cite_note-344> Dačić also reflected on his
opinions about Milošević during the campaign, saying that "Milošević was
an example of how to love and defend your country".^[344]
<#cite_note-345> The SPS coalition has also expressed its support for
the accession of Serbia to the European Union.^[331] <#cite_note-:45-332>


        Serbia Against Violence

Serbia Against Violence convention in Belgrade on 12 December 2023
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Serbia_Against_Violence_convention_in_Belgrade,_12_December_2023_(4)_(cropped).jpg>
SPN has campaigned on increasing pensions, salaries, and investing in
education and universal health care

Members of the SPN coalition, with the addition of Romanian Party and
the Civic Democratic Party, signed a cooperation agreement on 3
November, saying that "fight against crime and corruption, stopping
inflation and the impoverishment of citizens, restoring pensions reduced
in 2014, and the importance of security, especially for the youngest"
will be their main issues during the campaign.^[345] <#cite_note-346>
SPN submitted its list to RIK on 8 November.^[346] <#cite_note-347>
Their electoral list was confirmed by RIK on 9 November.^[224]
<#cite_note-RIK_SPN-224> While the negotiations were still ongoing,
Lutovac listed Gordana Matković <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Gordana_Matkovi%C4%87>, a minister under the governments of Zoran Đinđić
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoran_%C4%90in%C4%91i%C4%87> and Zoran
Živković <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Zoran_%C5%BDivkovi%C4%87_(politician)>, and Ivan Vujačić <https://
en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Ivan_Vuja%C4%8Di%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> [sr <https://
sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivan_Vuja%C4%8Di%C4%87>], former leader of DS in
the National Assembly, as two potential candidates for the position of
prime minister, saying that they are "strong and accomplished
personalities, they have rich professional and political experience,
their public interest is above party or personal interest".^[347]
<#cite_note-348> SPN, however, decided to present Tepić and Aleksić as
their two main representatives.^[194] <#cite_note-:39-194>

Before and during the official campaign period, politicians affiliated
with SPN, including Tepić, Aleksić, Ćuta, and Srđan Milivojević
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sr%C4%91an_Milivojevi%C4%87>, a DS member
of the National Assembly, were featured on propaganda flyers that were
spread in Novi Sad and Belgrade, depicting them in a negative
matter.^[348] <#cite_note-:210-349> ^[349] <#cite_note-350> Pavle
Grbović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pavle_Grbovi%C4%87>, the
president of PSG, was also featured on posters that depicted him as an
Ustaša <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usta%C5%A1a>.^[350]
<#cite_note-351> The posters that featured Grbović were promoted by
Đorđe Dabić <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C4%90or%C4%91e_Dabi%C4%87>,
a SNS state secretary.^[348] <#cite_note-:210-349> Aleksić accused Vučić
of being behind these ideas, while Grbović filed complaints about the
posters.^[351] <#cite_note-352> ^[352] <#cite_note-353> Janko
Veselinović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Janko_Veselinovi%C4%87_(lawyer)>, the leader of the Movement for
Reversal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Movement_for_Reversal>, was
physically assaulted in Novi Sad on 12 November.^[353] <#cite_note-354>
Attacks on SSP offices on Zvezdara <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Zvezdara>, a Belgrade municipality, were conducted on 16 November.^[354]
<#cite_note-355>

SPN has campaigned on returning "stolen pensions", the pensions that
were lowered by Vučić's government in 2014, and on environmental
issues.^[355] <#cite_note-356> ^[356] <#cite_note-:35-357> Ćuta
highlighted the issue of poverty and hunger.^[356] <#cite_note-:35-357>
Lazović has also said that SPN supports removing national broadcast
frequency status for Happy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nacionalna_Televizija_Happy> and Pink <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Pink_(Serbia)> television channels, lowing the inflation and prices, and
investing in universal health care protection <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Universal_health_care>.^[357] <#cite_note-:63-358> Aleksić added
that SPN would introduce progressive taxation <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Progressive_taxation>, while Đilas said that SPN would also
increase salaries and invest in education.^[357] <#cite_note-:63-358>
^[358] <#cite_note-:55-359> Attended by several thousand supporters, SPN
held its last campaign convention on 12 December in Belgrade.^[359]
<#cite_note-360>


        National Democratic Alternative

NADA began its official campaign on 28 October, listing corruption,
nepotism, party employment, and rejecting Ohrid Agreement as one of its
main issues for the election.^[360] <#cite_note-361> NADA submitted its
list to RIK on 6 November and RIK confirmed it a day later.^[252]
<#cite_note-:32-253> ^[222] <#cite_note-RIK_NADA-222> Shortly before the
beginning of the official campaign period, Jovanović was featured on
propaganda posters in October 2023, falsely depicting him as someone who
freed incumbent prime minister of Kosovo, Albin Kurti, in 2001.^[348]
<#cite_note-:210-349> Several NADA billboard posters were later torn
down on 21 November; NADA accused the government of being behind the
acts.^[361] <#cite_note-362>

During the campaign period, Jovanović intensified his criticism of SNS
while declining to criticise pro-European parties.^[362] <#cite_note-:
110-363> He has also called for greater cooperation between opposition
parties to topple SNS from power.^[363] <#cite_note-364> Jovanović has
called for electoral reform, pledging to "destroy the partocracy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partocracy> that SNS created".^[362]
<#cite_note-:110-363> Jovanović said that NADA wants to introduce the
first-past-the-post system <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-past-
the-post_voting>, claiming that with the introduction with a such system
"the possibility of the existence of a party state would be
destroyed".^[364] <#cite_note-365> NADA has also campaigned on further
regionalisation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regionalism_(politics)>
and decentralisation of Serbia and giving cities and municipalities more
power in regards to infrastructure and economy.^[365] <#cite_note-366>
Jovanović has also called for the reform of healthcare and agriculture,
saying that "an incredible sum from the budget goes into private
pockets, through the purchase of expensive medicines and medical
equipment" and that "agriculture should be a strategic branch of the
economy and accordingly the state must improve working conditions for
farmers".^[366] <#cite_note-367> ^[367] <#cite_note-368> Vojislav
Mihailović of POKS also called for the restoration of the monarchy,
saying that "Serbia should be a constitutional, parliamentary monarchy
like organised European countries".^[368] <#cite_note-369>

Regarding foreign policy, NADA has campaigned on wanting "the best
possible cooperation with the European Union" in regards to trade,
economy, and culture.^[369] <#cite_note-:40-370> It has hower expressed
its opposition to Serbia joining the European Union due to "the
condition set for Serbia to recognise the secession of Kosovo".^[369]
<#cite_note-:40-370> NADA held its last campaign convention on 10
December.^[370] <#cite_note-371>


        National Gathering

Milica Đurđević Stamenkovski, Boško Obradović, and ten other Dveri and
SSZ politicians giving a press conference at the Republic Electoral
Commission on 4 November 2023 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Milica_%C4%90ur%C4%91evi%C4%87_Stamenkovski_and_Bo%C5%A1ko_Obradovi%C4%87_at_RIK,_4_November_2023.png>
The SSZ–Dveri coalition has campaigned on forging closer relations with
BRICS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BRICS>, instead of the European
Union, and opposing the implementation of the Ohrid Agreement <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ohrid_Agreement_(2023)>

SSZ and Dveri, the members of the NO coalition, signed another
cooperation agreement on 1 November, announcing that they would
officially contest the elections together.^[371] <#cite_note-:31-372>
Obradović named preserving traditional values and Kosovo as part of
Serbia, supporting Republika Srpska, Serbs in neighbouring regions, and
ecological patriotism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eco-nationalism> as
one of their main issues.^[371] <#cite_note-:31-372> The coalition
submitted its list on 4 November and it was accepted by RIK a day
later.^[221] <#cite_note-NO_RIK-221> ^[372] <#cite_note-373> At a press
conference after they presented their electoral list, Đurđević
Stamenkovski emphasised their opposition to the Ohrid Agreement and the
European Union.^[373] <#cite_note-374> The far-right Alternative for
Germany <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternative_for_Germany> party,
the Ravna Gora Movement, and the clerical-fascist Obraz <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Obraz_(organization)> organisation of Mladen
Obradović, voiced their support for the SSZ–Dveri coalition.^[374]
<#cite_note-:232-375> ^[375] <#cite_note-376> ^[376] <#cite_note-377>

During the campaign period, the SSZ–Dveri coalition representatives
emphasised their support for greater incentives for domestic businessmen
and farmers,^[377] <#cite_note-378> the construction of student
dormitories in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Niš and Kragujevac, giving free
school books, and financial aid for "socially vulnerable
families".^[378] <#cite_note-379> ^[379] <#cite_note-380> Ratko Ristić
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Ratko_Risti%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1>, one of the
representatives of the NO coalition, also said that one of their main
issues is to "return Serbia's sovereignty, especially economic
sovereignty" and that they would "pay special attention to the
development of Serbian agriculture and the position of Serbian
farmers".^[380] <#cite_note-381> Đurđević Stamenkovski also said that
she wants Serbia to return "the proven traditional values in the
education system".^[381] <#cite_note-382> Obradović alleged that the
SSZ–Dveri coalition was a target of attacks and media censorship.^[382]
<#cite_note-383>

On foreign policy, the coalition expressed their support for retaining
close relations with China, due to their positions towards Kosovo,^[383]
<#cite_note-384> and that they would "request that Serbia become a part
of BRICS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BRICS>", saying that BRICS is an
alternative to the European Union.^[384] <#cite_note-385> Ivan Kostić
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivan_Kosti%C4%87_(Serbian_politician)> of
Dveri also said that "cooperation with BRICS would have better effects
on the Serbian economy" than with the European Union.^[385]
<#cite_note-386> Obradović alleged that regions such as Sandžak
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sand%C5%BEak>, Vojvodina <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vojvodina>, and parts of eastern Serbia would
separate from Serbia if "Serbia gives up on Kosovo".^[386]
<#cite_note-387> Đurđević Stamenkovski, in an Insajder interview, did
not reject cooperating with SNS after the elections if SNS rejects the
Ohrid Agreement.^[387] <#cite_note-388> NO held its last campaign
convention on 10 December.^[388] <#cite_note-389>


        Serbian Radical Party

SRS presented its electoral list to RIK on 3 November RIK confirmed it a
day later.^[389] <#cite_note-390> ^[390] <#cite_note-391> SRS has
campaigned on issues such as health care reform, saying that Serbia
should "use the experiences of foreign, Western European countries, as
well as the USA, which has a more developed health system",^[391]
<#cite_note-392> advocating greater investments for domestic companies,
and preventing bullying by creating "teams of parents, educators, and
local municipal officers".^[392] <#cite_note-393> ^[393]
<#cite_note-394> Aleksandar Šešelj <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Aleksandar_%C5%A0e%C5%A1elj> has also said that SRS supports a ban on
non-governmental organisations that support the recognition of
Kosovo.^[394] <#cite_note-395>

In an interview for Radio Television of Vojvodina <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio_Television_of_Vojvodina>, Aleksandar Šešelj
said that SRS would not join a pro-European government in case if SRS
crosses the electoral threshold.^[395] <#cite_note-396> SRS has called
for the abandonment of the process of accession of Serbia to the
European Union and instead called on forging closer ties with Russia and
becoming an applicant member of BRICS.^[396] <#cite_note-397> Vojislav
Šešelj also met with the Palestinian ambassador in Serbia during the
campaign; Vojislav Šešelj also criticised Israel, describing their
actions towards Palestine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
State_of_Palestine> as genocidal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Palestinian_genocide_accusation>.^[397] <#cite_note-398> ^[398]
<#cite_note-399>


        Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians

VMSZ, led by acting president Bálint Pásztor <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/B%C3%A1lint_P%C3%A1sztor>, submitted its list to RIK on 7
November.^[251] <#cite_note-VMSZ_slogan-252> At a press conference after
submitting the list, Pásztor said that VMSZ collected 11,355 signatures,
more than twice the amount needed for minority parties, and that they
would campaign on issues they issued in their electoral programme.^[251]
<#cite_note-VMSZ_slogan-252> RIK confirmed their list on 8
November.^[223] <#cite_note-RIK_VMSZ-223> Pásztor expressed his support
for continuing the cooperation between VMSZ and SNS.^[399]
<#cite_note-400> VMSZ received support from the Democratic Party of
Vojvodina Hungarians <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians> and Party of Hungarian Unity
in late November.^[400] <#cite_note-401>


        United for Justice

SPP and DSHV formalised an electoral alliance under the name United for
Justice (UZP) on 4 November.^[401] <#cite_note-402> UZP submitted its
list to RIK on 9 November, with Zukorlić stating that the coalition
would advocate for proportional representation of national communities
in public institutions and balanced regional development.^[402]
<#cite_note-403> Their electoral list was accepted by RIK on 10
November.^[225] <#cite_note-RIK_UZP-225> UZP members expressed their
support for remaining in the next government, saying "that members of
our communities supported this move".^[403] <#cite_note-404> Zukorlić
has described UZP as a pro-European coalition and has also said that "he
believes that one day Serbia will nevertheless join the NATO
alliance".^[404] <#cite_note-405> DSHV received support from Andrej
Plenković <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrej_Plenkovi%C4%87>, the
prime minister of Croatia and leader of the Croatian Democratic Union
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Croatian_Democratic_Union>.^[405]
<#cite_note-406>


        Party of Democratic Action of Sandžak

SDAS of Sulejman Ugljanin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Sulejman_Ugljanin> submitted its electoral list to RIK on 16 November,
with RIK confirming it on the same day.^[226] <#cite_note-RIK_SDAS-226>
^[406] <#cite_note-:34-407> Its main representative and ballot holder,
Selma Kučević <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Selma_Ku%C4%8Devi%C4%87>,
emphasised that SDAS supports decentralisation and regionalism as well
as "authentically representing the Bosniak people as well as other
citizens of Sandžak".^[406] <#cite_note-:34-407> Ugljanin has said that
SDAS supports anti-corruption measures and government
transparency.^[407] <#cite_note-408>


        Coalition for Peace and Tolerance

A group of ethnic minority parties and organisations, including Vlach
National Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vlach_National_Party>
(VNS), Hungarian Civic Alliance <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Hungarian_Civic_Alliance_(Serbia)> (MPSZ), and Democratic Party of
Macedonians <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_of_Macedonians>, held a meeting in April 2023, with the
intention being on forming a coalition, named Coalition for Peace and
Tolerance <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Coalition_for_Peace_and_Tolerance>, for the upcoming parliamentary,
provincial, and local elections.^[408] <#cite_note-409> Shortly after
the meeting, Jahja Fehratović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Jahja_Fehratovi%C4%87> left SPP.^[409] <#cite_note-410> Later in
October, Fehratović announced the formation of his political party, the
For the Future and Development <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=For_the_Future_and_Development&action=edit&redlink=1> (ZBR).^[410]
<#cite_note-:36-411> Fehratović said that ZBR would support traditional
values, spirituality, and rule of law.^[410] <#cite_note-:36-411>

Following the dissolution of the National Assembly, Fehratović's ZBR
formed a coalition, named "Together for the Future and Development –
Coalition for Peace and Development" (KZMT), with VNS, MPSZ, Democratic
Union of Croats <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Union_of_Croats>, Bosniak Civic Party, Party of Montenegrins,
Civic Party of Greeks of Serbia, Vojvodina Movement, Tolerance of
Serbia, Union of Yugoslavs, Union of Female Roma Network and Non-Roma
Network of Serbia, and Union of Banat Romanians.^[411] <#cite_note-:
37-412> Fehratović was also announced as the coalition's ballot
holder.^[411] <#cite_note-:37-412> KZMT submitted its electoral list on
17 November.^[412] <#cite_note-413> RIK rejected the list on 18
November, stating that out of 6,093 collected signatures, only 4,937 are
valid, and that KZMT must collect the remaining 63 signatures until 20
November.^[413] <#cite_note-414> On the same day, KZMT collected 436
more valid signatures and RIK confirmed their electoral list.^[227]
<#cite_note-RIK_KZMT-227>


        People's Party

After collecting more than 12,500 signatures, Narodna submitted its
electoral list to RIK on 19 November.^[414] <#cite_note-:38-415> At a
press conference in the building of RIK, Jeremić said that Narodna would
campaign on rejecting the Ohrid Agreement, prohibiting lithium mining
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithium_mining>, as well as "bringing
back sovereignty over the national economy".^[414] <#cite_note-:38-415>
RIK confirmed their electoral list on 20 November.^[228] <#cite_note-
RIK_NARODNA-228>

Narodna has also emphasised its support for introducing military
conscription <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military_conscription> to
retain military neutrality, retaining close relations with Russia, and
opposing sanctions against Russia, the accession of Serbia to the
European Union, and the recognition of Kosovo.^[415] <#cite_note-416>
Jeremić has said that Serbia should seek membership in the European
Economic Area <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Economic_Area>
instead.^[416] <#cite_note-417>


        DJB–SDS

Initially, SDS was supposed to take part in the SPN alliance while DJB
announced that they would contest the elections independently.^[417]
<#cite_note-418> SDS was ultimately declined to join SPN, and shortly
after in early November, DJB successfully negotiated with SDS and Ana
Pejić's Stolen Babies movement to form a joint electoral alliance,
mainly centering their opposition to the Ohrid Agreement.^[418]
<#cite_note-419> ^[419] <#cite_note-420> The coalition, named Good
Morning Serbia, submitted its electoral list to RIK on 22
November.^[420] <#cite_note-421> They collected over 11,500 signatures
of support.^[421] <#cite_note-422> RIK confirmed their electoral list on
23 November, with 10,534 valid signatures.^[229] <#cite_note-RIK_DJS-229>


        Others

The Russian Party, together with the New Communist Party of Yugoslavia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Communist_Party_of_Yugoslavia>
(NKPJ), submitted its electoral list on 25 November.^[422]
<#cite_note-423> On the same day, the Liberal Democratic Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberal_Democratic_Party_(Serbia)> (LDP) of
Čedomir Jovanović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%C4%8Cedomir_Jovanovi%C4%87> and the Serbia in the West coalition,
composed of Nova–D2SP, Civic Democratic Forum <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Civic_Democratic_Forum>, Liberals and Democrats, and Glas submitted
their electoral list.^[423] <#cite_note-424> ^[424] <#cite_note-425>
^[425] <#cite_note-426> The electoral lists of the citizens group We–The
Voice from the People (MI–GIN), represented by conspiracy theorist
Branimir Nestorović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Branimir_Nestorovi%C4%87>.^[426] <#cite_note-427> ^[427]
<#cite_note-428> RIK proclaimed the electoral lists of We–The Voice from
the People and Serbia in the West on 27 November.^[231] <#cite_note-
RIK_27Nov-231> On 28 November, the electoral lists of Russian Party–NKPJ
and LDP were proclaimed by RIK.^[232] <#cite_note-RIK_RSLDP-232>
Jovanović met with Kurti on 3 December, with whom he discussed about
Serbia–Kosovo relations.^[428] <#cite_note-429>


    Opinion polls

Opinion polling <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opinion_polling> for the
2023 parliamentary election in Serbia was conducted by various
monitoring and research organisations such as Demostat, NSPM, Agency
Faktor Plus, Šta Srbija misli?/New Third Way, Stata Agency, and
CRTA.^[429] <#cite_note-430> Stata Agency has also published scenario
polls, featuring a SNS–SPS alliance, the Serbia Against Violence
coalition, and the "state-building opposition"; Vukadinović of NSPM has
criticised Stata's scenario polls, saying that the coalition "Serbia
Against Violence is not exactly a fiction, then, for now, only a
projection and, possibly, the desire of some media and political
factors. It is difficult to compare something that actually exists with
something that could possibly be".^[430] <#cite_note-:23-431> Anđelković
also said that "public's pulse is very fluid when the elections are
still relatively far away".^[430] <#cite_note-:23-431> Besides Stata,
CRTA has also published a scenario poll in October 2023.^[431]
<#cite_note-432>

The Bureau of Social Research (BIRODI) has criticised opinion polling in
which "information about the name of the agency that conducted the
opinion poll, the individual who ordered the opinion poll, the number of
respondents, the time when the opinion poll was carried out, as well as
the question that were asked to the respondents" is not present, and has
called news agencies to not publish those opinion polls.^[432]
<#cite_note-:24-433> BIRODI has stated these organisations "give the
opportunity to use opinion polls for propaganda purposes" and has noted
that the elements lead to the "deprofessionalisation of a public opinion
researcher".^[432] <#cite_note-:24-433> Srećko Mihailović of Demostat
has also stated that most opinion polls in Serbia are "biased and
unprofessional", claiming that "clients are political parties and the
government, and researchers manipulate the ratings of parties" in
opinion polls.^[433] <#cite_note-434> The World Association for Public
Opinion Research <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
World_Association_for_Public_Opinion_Research>, an international
professional association of opinion poll researchers, has listed Serbia
as a country where there is a denial of the right to public opinion
research, stating that "there is pressure from the government,
politicians, and some media".^[434] <#cite_note-435>


      Graphical summary

The graph below showcases major parties and alliances in opinion polls
from the 2022 parliamentary election to 17 December 2023.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Opinion_polling_for_the_2023_Serbian_parliamentary_election.svg>
Local regression <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_regression> chart
of poll results from 3 April 2022 to 17 December 2023


    Conduct

On election day, 17 December, voting stations were opened from 07:00 to
20:00.^[435] <#cite_note-RIK_rokovi-436> Monitoring and non-governmental
organisations, such as CeSID <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CeSID>,
CRTA, and Kreni-Promeni, reported that the election day was marked with
electoral fraud <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electoral_fraud>.^[436]
<#cite_note-:48-437> ^[437] <#cite_note-:58-438> ^[438] <#cite_note-439>
^[439] <#cite_note-440> By 9:00, CeSID reported over 50 irregularities,
this included irregularities such as non-compliance of procedures by
members of election committees and voters photographing or recording
their ballot papers, while Kreni-Promeni reported instances of
irregularities, including the Bulgarian train <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Bulgarian_train> vote-rigging method at voting stations in New
Belgrade <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Belgrade>.^[436]
<#cite_note-:48-437> Nedeljkov from CRTA also reported that in Odžaci
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Od%C5%BEaci> CRTA observers were
physically attacked and that their cars sustained damage from the
attackers.^[440] <#cite_note-:49-441> In Odžaci, CRTA observers
previously reported an instance of a Bulgarian train.^[440]
<#cite_note-:49-441> Throughout the rest of the election day, CeSID
continued to report more irregularities and intimidation.^[441]
<#cite_note-442> Parandilović from SPN also published a video in which
two Priboj <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Priboj> councillor candidates
were rigging election ballots.^[442] <#cite_note-443>

Voters from Republika Srpska <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Republika_Srpska> were also driven to the Štark Arena <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C5%A0tark_Arena> in Belgrade.^[443]
<#cite_note-444> Despite Štark Arena not being a voting station, voters
from Republika Srpska confirmed that the Arena was used illegally as a
voting station and as a redirect station towards official voting
stations in Belgrade.^[444] <#cite_note-445> The security at the Štark
Arena did not allow members of RIK to enter the building.^[445]
<#cite_note-446> Brnabić said that she did not see what was irregular or
illegal with the arena serving as a redirect station for voters from
Republika Srpska.^[446] <#cite_note-447> Miodrag Jovanović, a professor
at the Faculty of Law, said that in regards to the Arena, "it is illegal
for someone to have a residence where he does not live".^[447]
<#cite_note-448>

In its report, ODIHR concluded that SNS had a "systematic advantage
which created unfair conditions in the elections" and that Vučić, the
president of Serbia, heavily dominated the election campaign, despite
not being a candidate in it.^[448] <#cite_note-:57-449> According to
ODIHR, there was abuse of public funds, the media monitoring body,
Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, was also not efficient during the
election campaign, and that despite the elections being well organised,
they were organised in a "societal and political divided
ambience".^[448] <#cite_note-:57-449> ODIHR said that the campaign was
polarised and met with negative campaigning and fearmongering <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fearmongering>.^[448] <#cite_note-:57-449> The
Federal Foreign Office <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Federal_Foreign_Office> of Germany said that abuse of public funds,
fearmongering of voters, and vote buying is "unacceptable for a country
with the status of a candidate for EU membership".^[449] <#cite_note-450>

Stefan Schennach <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Stefan_Schennach&action=edit&redlink=1> [de <https://
de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan_Schennach>], the chief of the delegation of
PACE that monitored the elections, said that "the elections were not
fair" and that he had seen "ballots that were printed by a
photocopier".^[450] <#cite_note-451> In a joint statement, Josep Borrell
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josep_Borrell> and Olivér Várhelyi
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oliv%C3%A9r_V%C3%A1rhelyi>, on behalf of
the European Commission, said that Serbia's "electoral process requires
tangible improvement and further reform".^[451] <#cite_note-452>
Political scientist Florian Bieber <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Florian_Bieber> said that "irregularities appeared to be more widespread
than in previous [elections]".^[452] <#cite_note-453> Matthew Miller
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_Miller_(spokesperson)>, the
spokesperson of the United States Department of State <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Department_of_State>, called for the
government of Serbia to investigate the irregularities that
occurred.^[453] <#cite_note-454> United States senators Jeanne Shaheen
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeanne_Shaheen> and Pete Ricketts
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pete_Ricketts> also called for the
government to "urgently consider whether elections should be repeated in
certain regions", saying that the elections were not free and
fair.^[454] <#cite_note-455> Andreas Schieder <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Andreas_Schieder>, who monitored the elections on behalf of the
European Parliament, criticised Brnabić, saying that "the government
should work on solving numerous claims about pressure on voters, vote
buying, violating voting secrecy, biased media, and the president's
involvement in the campaign".^[455] <#cite_note-456>

Vučić and SNS denied all of the electoral fraud allegations.^[437]
<#cite_note-:58-438> Brnabić accused the opposition and CRTA of
"destabilising Serbia and its constitutional order" and verbally
attacked Schennach and Schieder due to them criticising the conduct of
the election.^[456] <#cite_note-457> ^[457] <#cite_note-458>


    Results

There were 6,500,666 citizens in total who had the right to vote in the
parliamentary election.^[458] <#cite_note-459> Out of 8,273 voting
stations in total, voters abroad could have voted at 81 voting stations
in 35 different countries.^[459] <#cite_note-:41-460> ^[460]
<#cite_note-461> 32,216 dual citizens registered to take part in the
elections abroad.^[459] <#cite_note-:41-460> In Canada, Portugal, the
United Kingdom, and the United States, voting occurred on 16 December
from 07:00 to 20:00.^[231] <#cite_note-RIK_27Nov-231> Elections will be
repeated at 30 voting stations in 19 different municipalities on 30
December.^[461] <#cite_note-462>

After the voting stations were closed, CeSID/Ipsos and CRTA were the
first to report their projections of the results.^[462] <#cite_note-463>
^[463] <#cite_note-464> According to the 18 December projection from
CeSID/Ipsos, SNS won 46 percent of popular vote and 128 seats in the
National Assembly, successfully returning its parliamentary majority,
while SPN placed second, with 23.6 percent of popular vote and 65 seats
in the National Assembly.^[464] <#cite_note-:50-465> According to CeSID/
Ipsos, SPS only won 6 percent of popular vote and 18 seats in the
National Assembly, this being the worst result of SPS since the 2007
parliamentary election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2007_Serbian_parliamentary_election>, while NADA won 4.9 percent of
popular vote.^[464] <#cite_note-:50-465> In a surprise move,
Nestorović's MI–GIN also crossed the threshold, winning 13 seats in
total.^[464] <#cite_note-:50-465> Out of the minority lists, VMSZ won 6
seats, SPP–DSHV won 3 seats, SDAS won 2 seats, and SDAS and Russian
Party won one seat respectively.^[464] <#cite_note-:50-465> The NO
coalition of Dveri and SSZ failed to cross the threshold, winning only
2.8 percent of popular vote.^[465] <#cite_note-466> SNS received the
most votes abroad.^[466] <#cite_note-467>

RIK broadcast the results live, with the results being updated every 5
minutes.^[467] <#cite_note-468> After the publishing of the overall
report on the election, RIK must award the candidates the seats of the
National Assembly in less than 10 days.^[435] <#cite_note-RIK_rokovi-436>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
2023_Serbian_parliamentary_election_results_composition.svg>
Party, alliance, or citizens' group	Votes	%	+/–	Seats	+/–
	Serbia Must Not Stop <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbia_Must_Not_Stop>	1,783,701	48.07	+3.8	129	+9
	Serbia Against Violence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbia_Against_Violence_(coalition)>	902,450	24.32	+5.39	65	+25
	SPS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Party_of_Serbia>–JS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Serbia>–ZS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greens_of_Serbia>	249,916	6.73	–5.06	18	–13
	National Democratic Alternative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Democratic_Alternative_(Serbia)>	191,431	5.16	–0.38	13	–2
	We–The Voice from the People <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
We%E2%80%93The_Voice_from_the_People>	178,830	4.82	New	13	New
	National Gathering <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Gathering_(Serbia)>	105,165	2.83	–4.91	0	–16
	Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alliance_of_Vojvodina_Hungarians>	64,747	1.74	+0.11	6	+1
	Serbian Radical Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Serbian_Radical_Party>	55,782	1.50	–0.72	0	0
	Good Morning Serbia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Good_Morning_Serbia>	45,079	1.21	–3.69	0	0
	People's Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Party_(Serbia,_2017)>	33,388	0.90	New	0	–12
	SPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justice_and_Reconciliation_Party>–
DSHV <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Alliance_of_Croats_in_Vojvodina>	29,066	0.78	–0.84	2	–3
	Party of Democratic Action of Sandžak <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Party_of_Democratic_Action_of_Sand%C5%BEak>	21,827	0.59	+0.03	2	0
	Political Battle of the Albanians Continues <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Albanian_Coalition_of_Pre%C5%A1evo_Valley>	13,501	0.36	+0.08	1	0
	RS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_Party_(Serbia)>–NKPJ
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Communist_Party_of_Yugoslavia>	
11,369	0.31	New	1	New
	It Must Be Different <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Liberal_Democratic_Party_(Serbia)>	9,243	0.25	New	0	New
	Coalition for Peace and Tolerance <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Coalition_for_Peace_and_Tolerance>	6,786	0.18	New	0	–1
	Nova–D2SP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Party_(Serbia)>–GDF
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civic_Democratic_Forum>–Libdem–Glas	
5,462	0.15	New	0	0
	Albanian Democratic Alternative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alternative_for_Changes>	3,235	0.09	0	0	0
Total	3,710,978	100.00	–	250	0
Valid votes	3,710,978	97.13	
Invalid/blank votes	109,768	2.87	
Total votes	3,820,746	100.00	
Registered voters/turnout	6,500,666	58.77	
Source: Republic Electoral Commission,^[468] <#cite_note-469> ^[469]
<#cite_note-470>


    Aftermath

The Economist Intelligence Unit <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Economist_Intelligence_Unit> (EIU) and /Danas/ newspaper reported in
early December that on 22 September, Vučić signed an agreement with the
European Commission <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Commission>
on the production of lithium batteries in Serbia.^[470] <#cite_note-:
47-471> The government of Serbia previously cancelled the Rio Tinto
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rio_Tinto_(corporation)> lithium mine
project in January 2022, amidst the environmental protests <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021%E2%80%932022_Serbian_environmental_protests>,
but the EIU reported that in the September 2023 agreement "the
government [of Serbia] has not given up on a plan to allow the mining of
lithium at Jadar".^[470] <#cite_note-:47-471> The agreement also
includes a construction of another factory in Ćuprija <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C4%86uprija>.^[470] <#cite_note-:47-471> EIU
stated that due to the 2023 parliamentary election, "the government is
likely to stall the plans, reviving them only once the December election
is over".^[470] <#cite_note-:47-471>

Following the elections on 17 December, SPN began organising protests
outside the RIK building.^[471] <#cite_note-472> At the 18 December
protest, Aleksić and Tepić announced that they would go on a hunger
strike <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hunger_strike> until the results
of the Belgrade City Assembly elections are annulled.^[472]
<#cite_note-473> SPN expanded their demands on 20 December by demanding
the annulment of all 17 December election results.^[473]
<#cite_note-474> Alongside SPN, NADA, Narodna, SDS, and Dveri also
expressed their support for the annulment of 17 December election
results and the scheduling of a new ones.^[474] <#cite_note-475> On 21
December, members of the National Assembly Jelena Milošević <https://
en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Jelena_Milo%C5%A1evi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> and Danijela
Grujić <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Danijela_Gruji%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> joined Aleksić and
Tepić in their hunger strike.^[475] <#cite_note-476> A day later, Janko
Veselinović <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Janko_Veselinovi%C4%87_(lawyer)> and Željko Veselinović <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C5%BDeljko_Veselinovi%C4%87> also began their
hunger strike, while on 23 December MPs-elect Branko Miljuš <https://
en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Branko_Milju%C5%A1_(politician)&action=edit&redlink=1> and Dušan
Nikezić <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Du%C5%A1an_Nikezi%C4%87&action=edit&redlink=1> began their hunger
strike.^[476] <#cite_note-477> ^[477] <#cite_note-478>

Due to failing to cross the threshold, Obradović of Dveri and all
members of the presidency of Narodna, including president Jeremić,
resigned from their positions.^[478] <#cite_note-479> ^[479]
<#cite_note-480>


      Reactions

SNS proclaimed victory after the voting stations were closed, with
Brnabić saying at a press conference that "according to 50 percent of
processed polling stations, i.e. on a sample of 50 percent, the 'Serbia
Must Not Stop' list currently has 47.1 percent of popular vote".^[480]
<#cite_note-481> SNS was congratulated by Dačić and Milorad Dodik
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milorad_Dodik>, the president of
Republika Srpska, and Katalin Novák <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Katalin_Nov%C3%A1k>, the president of Hungary.^[481] <#cite_note-:
51-482> ^[482] <#cite_note-483> ^[483] <#cite_note-484> Vučić alleged
that a "an important country intervened in the election process of
Serbia in the most brutal way".^[484] <#cite_note-485>

Nestorović of MI–GIN said that "even though no one gave us a chance, we
became one of the four or five strongest parties"; he rejected
cooperating with SNS or SPN after the elections.^[485]
<#cite_note-486> /Danas/ newspaper described Nestorović as "the biggest
surprise" of the 2023 elections.^[486] <#cite_note-487> At a SPS press
conference, Dačić also said "this result is, as far as we are concerned,
unsatisfactory, and I will discuss with my colleagues from SPS what is
best for the party in the coming period. My personal opinion is that it
is necessary to find a new SPS leader".^[481] <#cite_note-:51-482>
Pásztor said that VMSZ "achieved the election result that we wanted" and
expressed joining the next SNS-led government.^[487] <#cite_note-488>

Miloš Bešić, a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, said that
the society in Serbia "is even more divided after the elections" and
argued that "the failure of right-wing parties is one of the main
impressions of the voting results".^[488] <#cite_note-:56-489> Bešić
also said that the attacks of SNS on SPS during the election campaign
was also shown in the elections, due to the decrease in support of SPS
and an increase in support of SNS.^[488] <#cite_note-:56-489> He,
however, noted that both SNS and SPS combined won fewer votes than in
the 2022 election.^[488] <#cite_note-:56-489>


      Government formation

On several occasions, Dačić has expressed his support for continuing to
work with SNS after the 2023 election.^[489] <#cite_note-:07-490> ^[490]
<#cite_note-:111-491> In October, Dačić had said: "I am convinced that
we will continue cooperation even after the victory in the December
elections, in the interest of Serbia, and a better future for all the
citizens of our country, as well as the Serbian people as a
whole."^[489] <#cite_note-:07-490> In an November interview with /
Insajder/, Dačić said that the goal of SPS is "to win a parliamentary
majority, together with SNS, because we alone cannot have a majority"
and that "the best solution for Serbia is ... that Vučić should be
president ... and Dacić should be prime minister."^[490] <#cite_note-:
111-491> Dačić later said, in regards to SNS forming a government with
SPS, that "[SPS] wants [to be in the government], but if they do not
want us, then there is no problem"; he has also criticised opposition
parties and described them as "a big fraud called DOS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Opposition_of_Serbia>".^[491]
<#cite_note-492> Other SPS politicians, like Paunović and Toma Fila
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toma_Fila>, also expressed their support
for continuing to work with SNS after the elections.^[492]
<#cite_note-493> ^[493] <#cite_note-494> VMSZ also expressed its support
for extending the cooperation with SNS after the 2023 election.^[494]
<#cite_note-495>

Despite taking part with SNS in the Belgrade City assembly election,
Vučić said that the next government would not include SRS due to
programme differences, naming European Union as an example.^[495]
<#cite_note-496> Vučić has also expressed doubts in SPS during the
campaign period, while Brnabić has also criticised SPS officials such as
Ružić, her former cabinet minister.^[496] <#cite_note-497> ^[497]
<#cite_note-498> Vučević also said that "there are no guarantees that
SPS will ... switch to the other side."^[498] <#cite_note-499> Dušan
Spasojević, a Faculty of Political Sciences professor, said that the
"attacks on SPS are aimed to win back part of the voters who voted for
the Socialists in the last elections, and perhaps to take over part of
their voting base".^[499] <#cite_note-500> Popović of the Centre for
Practical Politics argued the same.^[500] <#cite_note-501>


    Notes

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-234>* Candidates on Jovanović's list are formally
    taking part under the "Čedomir Jovanović – It Must Be Different"
    citizens group.^[233] <#cite_note-233>


    References

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-1>* "Izbori 2012: Rezultati i postizborna trgovina"
    <https://www.vreme.com/projekat/izbori-2012-rezultati-i-postizborna-
    trgovina/> [2012 elections: Results and post-election trade]. /
    Vreme/ (in Serbian). 10 May 2012. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20220630232520/https://www.vreme.com/projekat/izbori-2012-
    rezultati-i-postizborna-trgovina/> from the original on 30 June
    2022. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-2>* Kojić, Nikola (27 July 2023). "Dan kad je
    formirana prva vlada SNS-SPS: Kako je Dačić vratio Vučića na vlast"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/dan-kad-je-formirana-prva-vlada-sns-sps-
    kako-je-dacic-vratio-vucica-na-vlast/> [The day when the first SNS–
    SPS government was formed: How Dačić brought Vučić back to power]. /
    N1/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231021123701/https://n1info.rs/vesti/dan-kad-je-formirana-prva-
    vlada-sns-sps-kako-je-dacic-vratio-vucica-na-vlast/> from the
    original on 21 October 2023. Retrieved 18 October 2023.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-3>* Rudić, Filip (2 April 2017). "Vučić wins Serbian
    Presidential elections" <https://balkaninsight.com/2017/04/02/vucic-
    wins-serbian-presidential-elections-04-02-2017-1/>. /Balkan
    Insight/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20200612122815/
    https://balkaninsight.com/2017/04/02/vucic-wins-serbian-
    presidential-elections-04-02-2017-1/> from the original on 12 June
    2020. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-4>* "Pobeda Vučića i SNS, Beograd još enigma"
    <https://www.dw.com/sr/izbori2022%EF%B8%8F-pobeda-vu%C4%8Di%C4%87a-
    i-sns-beograd-jo%C5%A1-enigma/a-61342446> [The victory of Vučić and
    SNS, in Belgrade still an engima]. /Deutsche Welle/ (in Serbian). 4
    March 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220403222454/
    https://www.dw.com/sr/izbori2022%EF%B8%8F-pobeda-vu%C4%8Di%C4%87a-i-
    sns-beograd-jo%C5%A1-enigma/a-61342446> from the original on 3 April
    2022. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
 5. *^ <#cite_ref-5>* Bieber, Florian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Florian_Bieber> (July 2018). "Patterns of competitive
    authoritarianism in the Western Balkans" <https://doi.org/
    10.1080%2F21599165.2018.1490272>. /East European Politics/. *38*
    (3): 337–54. doi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doi_(identifier)>:
    10.1080/21599165.2018.1490272 <https://doi.org/
    10.1080%2F21599165.2018.1490272>.
 6. *^ <#cite_ref-6>* Maerz, Seraphine F; et al. (April 2020). "State of
    the world 2019: autocratization surges – resistance grows" <https://
    doi.org/10.1080%2F13510347.2020.1758670>. /Democratization/. *27*
    (6): 909–927. doi <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doi_(identifier)>:
    10.1080/13510347.2020.1758670 <https://doi.org/
    10.1080%2F13510347.2020.1758670>.
 7. *^ <#cite_ref-7>* /Democracy Report 2023: Defence in the Face of
    Autocratization/ <https://www.v-dem.net/documents/29/V-
    dem_democracyreport2023_lowres.pdf> (PDF). Gothenburg: V-Dem
    Institute, University of Gothenburg. 2023. p. 10. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230523162326/https://v-dem.net/documents/29/V-
    dem_democracyreport2023_lowres.pdf> (PDF) from the original on 23
    May 2023. Retrieved 29 May 2023.
 8. *^ <#cite_ref-8>* "Serbia: Freedom in the World 2023 Country Report"
    <https://freedomhouse.org/country/serbia/freedom-world/2023>. /
    Freedom House/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230529110137/https://freedomhouse.org/country/serbia/freedom-
    world/2023> from the original on 29 May 2023. Retrieved 29 May 2023.
 9. *^ <#cite_ref-9>* Konstantinović, Ivana (9 March 2023). "Fridom
    haus: U Srbiji dramatičan pad sloboda, demokratija u svetu na
    prekretnici" <https://www.glasamerike.net/a/izvestaj-fridom-haus-
    slobode-svet-srbija-nazadovanje/6996354.html> [Freedom House:
    Dramatic decline of freedoms in Serbia, democracy in the world at a
    turning point]. /Voice of America/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230604152222/https://www.glasamerike.net/a/
    izvestaj-fridom-haus-slobode-svet-srbija-nazadovanje/6996354.html>
    from the original on 4 June 2023. Retrieved 4 June 2023.
10. *^ <#cite_ref-10>* "IPSOS/CeSID: Prvi preliminarni rezultati
    parlamentarnih izbora" <https://rs.n1info.com/izbori-2022/
    parlamentarni-izbori/ipsos-cesid-prvi-preliminarni-rezultati-
    parlamentarnih-izbora/> [IPSOS/CeSID: First preliminary results of
    parliamentary elections]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 3 April 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20220527062151/https://rs.n1info.com/
    izbori-2022/parlamentarni-izbori/ipsos-cesid-prvi-preliminarni-
    rezultati-parlamentarnih-izbora/> from the original on 27 May 2022.
    Retrieved 2 June 2022.
11. *^ <#cite_ref-11>* "CeSID: Zabeležene različite nepravilnosti na
    biračkim mestima" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori22/
    cesid-zabelezene-razlicite-nepravilnosti-na-birackim-mestima/>
    [CeSID: Various irregularities at polling stations reported]. /
    Danas/ (in Serbian). 3 April 2022. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20220408222213/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/izbori22/cesid-zabelezene-razlicite-nepravilnosti-na-
    birackim-mestima/> from the original on 8 April 2022. Retrieved 2
    June 2022.
12. *^ <#cite_ref-12>* "CRTA: Uočen veliki broj nepravilnosti, bugarski
    voz, a u Beogradu odbili da sarađuju sa posmatračima" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori22/crta-uocen-veliki-broj-
    nepravilnosti-bugarski-voz-a-u-beogradi-odbili-da-saradjuju-sa-
    posmatracima/> [CRTA: A large number of irregularities were
    observed, a Bulgarian train, and in Belgrade they refused to
    cooperate with the observers]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 3 April 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220608031937/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori22/crta-uocen-veliki-broj-
    nepravilnosti-bugarski-voz-a-u-beogradi-odbili-da-saradjuju-sa-
    posmatracima/> from the original on 8 June 2022. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
13. *^ <#cite_ref-13>* "Izbori u Srbiji: Zabilježene nepravilnosti i
    napadi na stranačke zvaničnike" <https://balkans.aljazeera.net/
    videos/2022/4/3/izbori-u-srbiji-zabiljezene-nepravilnosti-i-napadi-
    na-stranacke-zvanicnike> [Elections in Serbia: Irregularities and
    attacks on party officials reported]. /Al Jazeera/ (in Bosnian). 3
    April 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220707034109/
    https://balkans.aljazeera.net/videos/2022/4/3/izbori-u-srbiji-
    zabiljezene-nepravilnosti-i-napadi-na-stranacke-zvanicnike> from the
    original on 7 July 2022. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
14. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:1_14-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:1_14-1>
    Latković, Nataša (13 May 2022). "Prestrojavanja u opoziciji:
    Formiraju novu organizaciju, DS sve bliži Moramo" <https://nova.rs/
    vesti/politika/prestrojavanja-u-opoziciji-formiraju-novu-
    organizaciju-ds-sve-blizi-moramo/> [Realignments in the opposition:
    Formation of a new organisation, the DS is getting closer to We
    Must]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20220513214434/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    prestrojavanja-u-opoziciji-formiraju-novu-organizaciju-ds-sve-blizi-
    moramo/> from the original on 13 May 2022. Retrieved 16 May 2022.
15. *^ <#cite_ref-15>* "Grbović (PSG): Koalicija "Ujedinjeni za pobedu
    Srbije" praktično ne postoji" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    grbovic-psg-koalicija-ujedinjeni-za-pobedu-srbije-prakticno-ne-
    postoji/> [Grbović (PSG): The United for the Victory of Serbia
    coalition practically does not exist]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 28
    April 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220501213301/
    https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/grbovic-psg-koalicija-
    ujedinjeni-za-pobedu-srbije-prakticno-ne-postoji/> from the original
    on 1 May 2022. Retrieved 1 May 2022.
16. *^ <#cite_ref-16>* "Izglasana nova Vlada Srbije, premijerka i
    ministri položili zakletvu" <https://rs.n1info.com/vesti/poslanici-
    izglasali-novu-vladu-srbije/> [The new government of Serbia has been
    voted in, the prime minister and ministers took the oath]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 26 October 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20221026200611/https://rs.n1info.com/vesti/poslanici-izglasali-novu-
    vladu-srbije/> from the original on 26 October 2022. Retrieved 26
    October 2022.
17. *^ <#cite_ref-17>* "Ministar Rade Basta traži da se Vlada izjasni o
    sankcijama Rusiji: Za uvođenje sankcija sam" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/ministar-rade-basta-trazi-da-se-clanovi-vlade-
    izjasne-o-sankcijama-rusiji/> [Minister Rade Basta requests that the
    government should declare its stance on sanctions against Russia: I
    am in favour of introducing sanctions]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 13
    March 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230313145950/
    https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/ministar-rade-basta-trazi-da-se-
    clanovi-vlade-izjasne-o-sankcijama-rusiji/> from the original on 13
    March 2023. Retrieved 25 July 2023.
18. *^ <#cite_ref-:53_18-0>* Valtner, Lidija (22 June 2023). "Rade Basta
    potvrdio da je zahtev za njegovu smenu poslat Skupštini: Očekuje da
    naprednjaci neće prihvatiti predlog SPS i JS" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/rade-basta-potvrdio-da-je-zahtev-za-njegovu-smenu-
    poslat-skupstini-ocekuje-da-naprednjaci-nece-prihvatiti-predlog-sps-
    i-js/> [Rade Basta confirmed that the request for his removal has
    been sent to the Assembly: He expects that the Progressives will not
    accept the SPS and JS proposal]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230702222153/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/rade-basta-potvrdio-da-je-zahtev-za-njegovu-smenu-
    poslat-skupstini-ocekuje-da-naprednjaci-nece-prihvatiti-predlog-sps-
    i-js/> from the original on 2 July 2023. Retrieved 25 July 2023.
19. *^ <#cite_ref-19>* "Skupština izglasala smenu ministra Radeta Baste"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/skupstina-izglasala-smenu-ministra-radeta-
    baste/> [The Assembly voted to dismiss minister Rade Basta]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 11 July 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230726160305/https://n1info.rs/vesti/skupstina-izglasala-smenu-
    ministra-radeta-baste/> from the original on 26 July 2023. Retrieved
    25 July 2023.
20. *^ <#cite_ref-20>* Marić, Dunja (27 May 2023). "Miloš Vučević novi
    predsednik SNS" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/milos-vucevic-novi-
    predsednik-sns/> [Miloš Vučević is the new president of the SNS]. /
    NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230603132710/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/milos-vucevic-novi-
    predsednik-sns/> from the original on 3 June 2023. Retrieved 27 May
    2023.
21. *^ <#cite_ref-21>* "Građani Srbije koji dolaze na Kosovo dobiće
    "dokument za ulazak i izlazak"" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/gradjani-
    srbije-koji-dolaze-na-kosovo-dobice-dokument-za-ulazak-i-izlazak/>
    [Citizens of Serbia who come to Kosovo will receive "entry and exit
    documents"]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 29 July 2022. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231016094750/https://n1info.rs/vesti/gradjani-
    srbije-koji-dolaze-na-kosovo-dobice-dokument-za-ulazak-i-izlazak/>
    from the original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
22. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:20_22-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    20_22-1> "Kosovo pushes ahead with car licensing rule resisted by
    Serbs" <https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/kosovo-pushes-ahead-
    with-car-licensing-rule-resisted-by-ethnic-serbs-2022-09-01/>. /
    Reuters/. 1 September 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20221028002846/https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/kosovo-pushes-
    ahead-with-car-licensing-rule-resisted-by-ethnic-serbs-2022-09-01/>
    from the original on 28 October 2022. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
23. *^ <#cite_ref-23>* "Serbia-Kosovo ID document row settled, says EU"
    <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-62702819>. /BBC News/. 27
    August 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220830031211/
    https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-62702819> from the original on
    30 August 2022. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
24. *^ <#cite_ref-24>* "Novi plan Šolca i Makrona za Kosovo i Srbiju:
    Realnost ili spisak želja" <https://www.vreme.com/vesti/novi-plan-
    solca-i-makrona-za-kosovo-i-srbiju-realnost-ili-spisak-zelja/> [The
    new plan of Scholz and Macron for Kosovo and Serbia: Reality or a
    wish list]. /Vreme/ (in Serbian). 18 September 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230116220044/https://www.vreme.com/
    vesti/novi-plan-solca-i-makrona-za-kosovo-i-srbiju-realnost-ili-
    spisak-zelja/> from the original on 16 January 2023. Retrieved 14
    October 2023.
25. *^ <#cite_ref-25>* Isufi, Perparim; Dragojlo, Saša (10 October
    2022). "Belgrade, Pristina Confirm German-French Proposal for Kosovo
    Deal" <https://balkaninsight.com/2022/10/10/belgrade-pristina-
    confirm-german-french-proposal-for-kosovo-deal/>. /Balkan Insight/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221213003615/https://
    balkaninsight.com/2022/10/10/belgrade-pristina-confirm-german-
    french-proposal-for-kosovo-deal/> from the original on 13 December
    2022. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
26. *^ <#cite_ref-26>* "Kosovo expands timeline for Serbs to comply with
    car plates" <https://apnews.com/article/nato-europe-serbia-kosovo-
    pristina-e3e0e8e04998fed2701d4af504202c56>. /Associated Press/. 28
    October 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230111141029/
    https://apnews.com/article/nato-europe-serbia-kosovo-pristina-
    e3e0e8e04998fed2701d4af504202c56> from the original on 11 January
    2023. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
27. *^ <#cite_ref-:92_27-0>* "Srbi se povukli iz svih institucija na
    Kosovu, Vučić kaže da su se desile tektonske promene" <https://
    www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/srbija-63527308> [Serbs withdrew from all
    institutions, policemen took off their uniforms, the EU calls for
    reason]. /BBC News/ (in Serbian). 5 November 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230111141029/https://www.bbc.com/
    serbian/lat/srbija-63527308> from the original on 11 January 2023.
    Retrieved 14 October 2023.
28. *^ <#cite_ref-:132_28-0>* "Kosovo i Srbija postigli sporazum o
    registarskim tablicama" <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/glavni-
    pregovara%C4%8Di-srbije-i-kosova-u-sredu-kod-laj%C4%8Daka/
    32144141.html> [Kosovo and Serbia reached an agreement on license
    plates]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian). 23 November 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221213161341/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/glavni-pregovara%C4%8Di-srbije-i-kosova-u-
    sredu-kod-laj%C4%8Daka/32144141.html> from the original on 13
    December 2022. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
29. *^ <#cite_ref-29>* Preussen, Wilhelmine (24 November 2022). "Kosovo,
    Serbia reach deal over car plate dispute, EU says" <https://
    www.politico.eu/article/kosovo-and-serbia-reach-last-minute-deal-
    over-car-plates-dispute-josep-borrell-aleksandar-vucic-albin-kurti/
    >. /Politico/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221211040220/
    https://www.politico.eu/article/kosovo-and-serbia-reach-last-minute-
    deal-over-car-plates-dispute-josep-borrell-aleksandar-vucic-albin-
    kurti/> from the original on 11 December 2022. Retrieved 13 December
    2022.
30. *^ <#cite_ref-:152_30-0>* "Petković: Srbija će razmotriti povratak
    svojih snaga na Kosovo" <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/
    petkovi%C4%87-sever-kosova/32168241.html> [Petković: Serbia will
    consider the return of its forces to Kosovo]. /Radio Free Europe/
    (in Serbian). 8 October 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20221213173056/https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/petkovi%C4%87-sever-
    kosova/32168241.html> from the original on 13 December 2022.
    Retrieved 13 December 2022.
31. *^ <#cite_ref-31>* Taylor, Alice; Radosavljevic, Zoran (9 December
    2022). "Kosovo police increase presence in north of country, Serbia
    reacts" <https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/kosovo-
    police-increase-presence-in-north-of-country-serbia-reacts/>. /
    Euractiv/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221213173056/
    https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/kosovo-police-
    increase-presence-in-north-of-country-serbia-reacts/> from the
    original on 13 December 2022. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
32. *^ <#cite_ref-32>* Gec, Jovana (8 January 2023). "Serbia says KFOR
    rejected its forces' return to Kosovo" <https://apnews.com/article/
    politics-serbia-kosovo-european-union-north-atlantic-treaty-
    organization-26a913666d23c0e69d1e6ddac1d9f5eb>. /Associated Press/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230108104802/https://
    apnews.com/article/politics-serbia-kosovo-european-union-north-
    atlantic-treaty-organization-26a913666d23c0e69d1e6ddac1d9f5eb> from
    the original on 8 January 2023. Retrieved 8 January 2023.
33. *^ <#cite_ref-:19_33-0>* "Kosovo Serbs block road to main border
    crossings in volatile north" <https://www.theguardian.com/world/
    2022/dec/10/kosovo-serbs-block-road-to-major-border-crossings-in-
    volatile-north>. /The Guardian/. 10 December 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20221212091452/https://
    www.theguardian.com/world/2022/dec/10/kosovo-serbs-block-road-to-
    major-border-crossings-in-volatile-north> from the original on 12
    December 2022. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
34. *^ <#cite_ref-34>* "Far-Right Protesters Rally In Belgrade In
    Support Of Kosovar Serbs As EU Urges De-Escalation" <https://
    www.rferl.org/a/kosovo-serbia-eu-urges-de-escalation-protests-rally/
    32174257.html>. /Radio Free Europe/. 13 December 2012. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20221213185710/https://www.rferl.org/a/
    kosovo-serbia-eu-urges-de-escalation-protests-rally/32174257.html>
    from the original on 13 December 2022. Retrieved 13 December 2022.
35. *^ <#cite_ref-35>* Bytyci, Fatos (19 March 2023). "Serbia, Kosovo
    reach agreement to implement EU-backed deal normalising ties"
    <https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/kosovo-serbia-leaders-arrive-
    eu-backed-talks-deal-normalise-ties-2023-03-18/>. /Reuters/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230318143035/https://
    www.reuters.com/world/europe/kosovo-serbia-leaders-arrive-eu-backed-
    talks-deal-normalise-ties-2023-03-18/> from the original on 18 March
    2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
36. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:21_36-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    21_36-1> "Dramatičan dan u Banjskoj: U sukobu Srba i kosovske
    policije ubijen policajac i trojica napadača, šestoro uhapšenih,
    situacija i dalje napeta" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    dramatican-dan-u-banjskoj-u-sukobu-srba-i-kosovske-policije-ubijen-
    policajac-i-trojica-napadaca-sestoro-uhapsenih-situacija-i-dalje-
    napeta/> [Dramatic day in Banjska: In the conflict between the Serbs
    and the Kosovo Police, a policeman and three attackers were killed,
    six were arrested, the situation is still tense]. /NOVA portal/ (in
    Serbian). 24 September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231016094749/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/dramatican-dan-u-
    banjskoj-u-sukobu-srba-i-kosovske-policije-ubijen-policajac-i-
    trojica-napadaca-sestoro-uhapsenih-situacija-i-dalje-napeta/> from
    the original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
37. *^ <#cite_ref-37>* Soares, Isa; Edwards, Christian (31 May 2023).
    "Kosovo prime minister says he will not surrender country to Serbian
    'fascist militia' after clashes in north" <https://www.cnn.com/
    2023/05/31/europe/albin-kurti-kosovo-serbia-interview-intl/
    index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230925181816/https://www.cnn.com/2023/05/31/europe/albin-kurti-
    kosovo-serbia-interview-intl/index.html> from the original on 25
    September 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
38. *^ <#cite_ref-38>* "Serbian authorities have detained the alleged
    organizer behind a recent shootout with Kosovo police" <https://
    abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/serbian-authorities-detained-
    alleged-organizer-recent-shootout-kosovo-103686267>. /ABC News/. 3
    October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231004094716/
    https://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/serbian-authorities-
    detained-alleged-organizer-recent-shootout-kosovo-103686267> from
    the original on 4 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
39. *^ <#cite_ref-39>* Dragojlo, Saša; Bami, Xhorxhina (4 October 2023).
    "Belgrade Court Rejects Detention for Kosovo Serb Kingpin Radoicic"
    <https://balkaninsight.com/2023/10/04/belgrade-court-rejects-
    detention-for-kosovo-serb-kingpin-radoicic/>. /Balkan Insight/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231004202212/https://
    balkaninsight.com/2023/10/04/belgrade-court-rejects-detention-for-
    kosovo-serb-kingpin-radoicic/> from the original on 4 October 2023.
    Retrieved 14 October 2023.
40. *^ <#cite_ref-40>* "Srbija proglasila dan žalosti zbog dešavanja na
    Kosovu" <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/srbija-kosovo-napad-dan-
    zalosti/32609669.html> [Serbia declared a day of mourning for the
    events in Kosovo]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian). 26 September
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231016094748/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/srbija-kosovo-napad-dan-zalosti/
    32609669.html> from the original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved 14
    October 2023.
41. *^ <#cite_ref-41>* "Kosovski ministar: Čovek blizak Danilu Vučiću
    učestvovao u napadu u Banjskoj" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/kosovski-
    ministar-covek-blizak-danilu-vucicu-ucestvovao-u-napadu-u-banjskoj/>
    [Kosovo minister: A man close to Danilo Vučić participated in the
    attack in Banjska]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 8 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231013180819/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    kosovski-ministar-covek-blizak-danilu-vucicu-ucestvovao-u-napadu-u-
    banjskoj/> from the original on 13 October 2023. Retrieved 14
    October 2023.
42. *^ <#cite_ref-42>* "Priština: Vučić i Vučević umešani u napad u
    Banjskoj" <https://www.vreme.com/vesti/pristina-vucic-i-vucevic-
    umesani-u-napad-u-banjskoj/> [Pristina: Vučić and Vučević involved
    in the attack in Banjska]. /Vreme/ (in Serbian). 2 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231016100251/https://
    www.vreme.com/vesti/pristina-vucic-i-vucevic-umesani-u-napad-u-
    banjskoj/> from the original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved 14
    October 2023.
43. *^ <#cite_ref-43>* "EP usvojio rezoluciju kojom se poziva na
    uvođenje mera protiv srpskih vlasti zbog Banjske" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/ep-rezolucija-srbija-sankcije/> [The EP adopted a
    resolution calling for the introduction of measures against the
    Serbian authorities because of Banjska]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 19
    October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231019103444/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/ep-rezolucija-srbija-sankcije/> from the
    original on 19 October 2023. Retrieved 19 October 2023.
44. *^ <#cite_ref-44>* "Belgrade shooting: Teen made 'kill list' for
    Serbia school attack" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
    europe-65468404>. /BBC News/. 3 May 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230503091248/https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
    europe-65468404> from the original on 3 May 2023. Retrieved 17 May 2023.
45. *^ <#cite_ref-45>* Dragojlo, Saša (5 May 2023). "Second Mass
    Shooting in Two Days Stuns Serbia, Killing Eight" <https://
    balkaninsight.com/2023/05/05/second-mass-shooting-in-two-days-stuns-
    serbia-killing-eight/>. /Balkan Insight/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231025172604/https://balkaninsight.com/
    2023/05/05/second-mass-shooting-in-two-days-stuns-serbia-killing-
    eight/> from the original on 25 October 2023. Retrieved 17 May 2023.
46. *^ <#cite_ref-bbcnews1_46-0>* Bubalo, Mattea; Gozzi, Laura (5 May
    2023). "Second mass shooting in Serbia leaves eight dead" <https://
    www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-65490418>. /BBC News/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230505033713/https://www.bbc.com/
    news/world-europe-65490418> from the original on 5 May 2023.
    Retrieved 17 May 2023.
47. *^ <#cite_ref-47>* "Factbox: How countries have legislated after
    mass shootings" <https://www.reuters.com/world/how-countries-have-
    legislated-after-mass-shootings-2023-05-05/>. /Reuters/. 5 May 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231025172555/https://
    www.reuters.com/world/how-countries-have-legislated-after-mass-
    shootings-2023-05-05/> from the original on 25 October 2023.
    Retrieved 17 May 2023.
48. *^ <#cite_ref-48>* "Ružić: Poguban uticaj zapadnih vrednosti"
    <https://www.nedeljnik.rs/ruzic-poguban-uticaj-zapadnih-vrednosti/>
    [Ružić: The pernicious influence of Western values]. /Nedeljnik/ (in
    Serbian). 3 May 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230503165331/https://www.nedeljnik.rs/ruzic-poguban-uticaj-
    zapadnih-vrednosti/> from the original on 3 May 2023. Retrieved 17
    May 2023.
49. *^ <#cite_ref-49>* "Brnabić o tragediji u školi "Vladislav
    Ribnikar": Sistem nije zakazao" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/brnabic-o-
    tragediji-u-os-vladislav-ribnikar-sistem-nije-zakazao/> [Brnabić on
    the tragedy at the "Vladislav Ribnikar" school: The system did not
    fail]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 4 May 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230517213744/https://n1info.rs/vesti/brnabic-
    o-tragediji-u-os-vladislav-ribnikar-sistem-nije-zakazao/> from the
    original on 17 May 2023. Retrieved 17 May 2023.
50. *^ <#cite_ref-:2_50-0>* "Protest protiv nasilja: Građani tražili
    ostavke, organizatori – na ulici 50.000" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    protest-opozicije-srbija-protiv-nasilja/> [Protest Against Violence:
    Citizens demanded resignations, organisers – 50,000 on the
    streets]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 8 May 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230518003642/https://n1info.rs/vesti/protest-
    opozicije-srbija-protiv-nasilja/> from the original on 18 May 2023.
    Retrieved 17 May 2023.
51. *^ <#cite_ref-51>* "Srbija protiv nasilja: Protesti u više gradova"
    <https://www.vreme.com/vesti/srbija-porotiv-nasilja-protesti-u-vise-
    gradova/> [Serbia Against Violence: Protests in several cities]. /
    Vreme/ (in Serbian). 8 May 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230517225835/https://www.vreme.com/vesti/srbija-porotiv-
    nasilja-protesti-u-vise-gradova/> from the original on 17 May 2023.
    Retrieved 17 May 2023.
52. *^ <#cite_ref-:6_52-0>* "Tens of thousands march in Belgrade after
    mass shootings" <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/may/12/tens-
    of-thousands-march-in-belgrade-after-mass-shootings>. /The
    Guardian/. 12 May 2023. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0261-3077 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0261-3077>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230517015943/
    https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/may/12/tens-of-thousands-
    march-in-belgrade-after-mass-shootings> from the original on 17 May
    2023. Retrieved 17 May 2023.
53. *^ <#cite_ref-53>* Gec, Jovana; Stojanović, Dušan (19 May 2023).
    "Thousands protest against violence in Serbia as authorities reject
    opposition criticism and demands" <https://apnews.com/article/
    serbia-shootings-protest-
    violence-48d5cd765213402ddc040f0365d94216>. /Associated Press/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230519112652/https://
    apnews.com/article/serbia-shootings-protest-
    violence-48d5cd765213402ddc040f0365d94216> from the original on 19
    May 2023. Retrieved 19 May 2023.
54. *^ <#cite_ref-54>* Gubaš, Aleksandar (26 May 2023). "Samo četiri
    skupa izvela na ulicu više od 50.000 ljudi: Koliki je stvaran broj
    ljudi na raznim protestima i mitinzima u istoriji Beograda?"
    <https://www.danas.rs/dijalog/licni-stavovi/samo-cetiri-skupa-
    izvela-na-ulicu-vise-od-50-000-ljudi-koliki-je-stvaran-broj-ljudi-
    na-raznim-protestima-i-mitinzima-u-istoriji-beograda/> [Only four
    rallies brought more than 50,000 people to the streets: What is the
    real number of people at various protests and rallies in the history
    of Belgrade?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230531013841/https://www.danas.rs/dijalog/
    licni-stavovi/samo-cetiri-skupa-izvela-na-ulicu-vise-od-50-000-
    ljudi-koliki-je-stvaran-broj-ljudi-na-raznim-protestima-i-mitinzima-
    u-istoriji-beograda/> from the original on 31 May 2023. Retrieved 4
    June 2023.
55. *^ <#cite_ref-:8_55-0>* Jeremić, Ivana; Stojanović, Milica;
    Dragojlo, Saša (12 May 2023). "Serbians Hold Mass Protest Against
    Culture of Violence After Shootings" <https://balkaninsight.com/
    2023/05/12/serbians-hold-mass-protest-against-culture-of-violence-
    after-shootings/>. /Balkan Insight/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230512195516/https://balkaninsight.com/
    2023/05/12/serbians-hold-mass-protest-against-culture-of-violence-
    after-shootings/> from the original on 12 May 2023. Retrieved 18 May
    2023.
56. *^ <#cite_ref-56>* "Vučić: Organizovaćemo "najveći skup ikada u
    Srbiji" 26. maja" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-najavio-za-26-maj-
    najveci-skup-ikada-u-srbiji/> [Vučić: We will organise "the biggest
    gathering ever in Serbia" on 26 May]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 9 May 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230517045550/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-najavio-za-26-maj-najveci-skup-ikada-u-srbiji/
    > from the original on 17 May 2023. Retrieved 17 May 2023.
57. *^ <#cite_ref-:9_57-0>* "Brnabić odbacila sve zahteve
    poljoprivrednika Srbije, sutra počinju protesti" <https://beta.rs/
    ekonomija/ekonomija-srbija/181725-propali-pregovori-sa-vladom-od-
    sutra-protest-poljoprivrednika-srbije> [Brnabić rejects all demands
    of Serbian farmers, the protests will start tomorrow]. /Novinska
    agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 15 May 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230515142729/https://beta.rs/ekonomija/
    ekonomija-srbija/181725-propali-pregovori-sa-vladom-od-sutra-
    protest-poljoprivrednika-srbije> from the original on 15 May 2023.
    Retrieved 18 May 2023.
58. *^ <#cite_ref-58>* Sovrlić, Sanja (20 May 2023). "Poljoprivrednici
    prihvatili ponudu Vlade, blokade se obustavljaju" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/poljoprivrednici-zahtevi-blokada/> [Farmers accept
    the government's offer, the blockades are suspended]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230520175825/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/poljoprivrednici-zahtevi-blokada/> from the
    original on 20 May 2023. Retrieved 20 May 2023.
59. *^ <#cite_ref-59>* "Protest 'Srbija protiv nasilja': Ako vlast ne
    ispuni zahteve, blokade u više od deset gradova" <https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/srbija-protiv-nasilja-sedmi-protest/
    32463752.html> [Protest 'Serbia Against Violence': If the government
    does not fulfill the demands, there will be blockades in more than
    ten cities]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian). 17 June 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230705044504/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/srbija-protiv-nasilja-sedmi-protest/
    32463752.html> from the original on 5 July 2023. Retrieved 14
    October 2023.
60. *^ <#cite_ref-60>* ""Srbija protiv nasilja": Petnaesti protest
    protiv vlasti na ulicama Beograda u znak podrške meštanima Bačke
    Palanke" <https://www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/srbija-66477008> ["Serbia
    Against Violence": The fifteenth protest against the authorities on
    the streets of Belgrade in support of the residents of Bačka
    Palanka]. /BBC News/ (in Serbian). 12 August 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231013183731/https://www.bbc.com/
    serbian/lat/srbija-66477008> from the original on 13 October 2023.
    Retrieved 14 October 2023.
61. *^ <#cite_ref-61>* ""Srbija protiv nasilja": Dvadeset i treći
    protest na ulicama Beograda" <https://www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/
    srbija-67038980> ["Serbia Against Violence": The twenty-third
    protest on the streets of Belgrade]. /BBC News/ (in Serbian). 7
    October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231013041447/
    https://www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/srbija-67038980> from the original
    on 13 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
62. *^ <#cite_ref-62>* "Poslednji protest "Srbija protiv nasilja" u ovom
    formatu: Građanima poručeno "Nemojte da prespavate 17. decembar""
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/gradjani-se-okupljaju-ispred-
    skupstine-srbije-pocinje-protest-srbija-protiv-nasilja/> [The last
    "Serbia Against Violence" protest in this format: Citizens said
    "don't sleep through 17 December"]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 4 November
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231105000816/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/gradjani-se-okupljaju-ispred-skupstine-
    srbije-pocinje-protest-srbija-protiv-nasilja/> from the original on
    5 November 2023. Retrieved 5 November 2023.
63. *^ <#cite_ref-63>* "Branko Ružić podneo ostavku" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/branko-ruzic-podneo-ostavku/> [Branko Ružić resigned]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 7 May 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230507163722/https://n1info.rs/vesti/branko-ruzic-podneo-ostavku/>
    from the original on 7 May 2023. Retrieved 25 July 2023.
64. *^ <#cite_ref-milicevicvd_64-0>* Pašić, Danijela (31 May 2023).
    "Đorđe Milićević umesto Ružića – imenovan vršilac dužnosti ministra
    prosvete" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/djordje-milicevic-umesto-ruzica-
    imenovan-vrsilac-duznosti-ministra-prosvete/> [Đorđe Milićević
    instead of Ružić – appointed acting minister of education]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230605030435/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/djordje-milicevic-umesto-ruzica-imenovan-
    vrsilac-duznosti-ministra-prosvete/> from the original on 5 June
    2023. Retrieved 25 July 2023.
65. *^ <#cite_ref-dejanovic_65-0>* "Slavica Đukić Dejanović i zvanično
    novi ministar prosvete" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    skupstina-srbije-izglasala-slavicu-djukic-dejanovic-za-ministarku-
    prosvete/> [Slavica Đukić Dejanović is officially the new minister
    of education]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 25 July 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230725131628/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/skupstina-srbije-izglasala-slavicu-djukic-dejanovic-
    za-ministarku-prosvete/> from the original on 25 July 2023.
    Retrieved 25 July 2023.
66. *^ <#cite_ref-66>* Milenković, Mirjana (5 July 2023). "Za
    nepoverenje Gašiću glasalo 37 poslanika, nije smenjen" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/skupstina-srbije-za-nepoverenje-gasicu-
    glasalo-37-poslanika-nije-smenjen/> [37 deputies voted for no
    confidence in Gašić, he was not dismissed]. /Danas/ (in Serbian).
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230725194140/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/skupstina-srbije-za-nepoverenje-gasicu-
    glasalo-37-poslanika-nije-smenjen/> from the original on 25 July
    2023. Retrieved 25 July 2023.
67. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:02_67-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    02_67-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:02_67-2> "Electoral system of Serbia"
    <http://www.ipu.org/parline-e/reports/2355_B.htm>. /Inter-
    Parliamentary Union/. 2016. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20160306025850/http://www.ipu.org/parline-e/reports/2355_B.htm> from
    the original on 6 March 2016. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
68. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:0_68-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:0_68-1>
    ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:0_68-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-:0_68-3> ^/*e*/
    <#cite_ref-:0_68-4> ^/*f*/ <#cite_ref-:0_68-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-:
    0_68-6> ^/*h*/ <#cite_ref-:0_68-7> "Izbori i izborni sistem"
    <http://www.parlament.gov.rs/narodna-skupstina-/uloga-i-nacin-rada/
    izbori-i-izborni-sistem.906.html> [Elections and the electoral
    system]. /National Assembly of Serbia/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230611193855/http://
    www.parlament.gov.rs/narodna-skupstina-/uloga-i-nacin-rada/izbori-i-
    izborni-sistem.906.html> from the original on 11 June 2023.
    Retrieved 29 May 2023.
69. *^ <#cite_ref-:5_69-0>* Milovančević, Vojislav (29 October 2021).
    "Detalji sporazuma Vučića i opozicije iz Skupštine" <https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/ekskluzivno-detalji-sporazuma-vucica-i-
    opozicije-iz-skupstine/> [Details of the agreement between Vučić and
    the opposition from the Assembly]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian).
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20211029113154/https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/ekskluzivno-detalji-sporazuma-vucica-i-
    opozicije-iz-skupstine/> from the original on 29 October 2021.
    Retrieved 2 June 2022.
70. *^ <#cite_ref-70>* "Cenzus tri odsto, na listama 40 procenata žena"
    <https://www.rts.rs/page/stories/sr/story/9/politika/3844903/cenzus-
    tri-odsto-na-listama-40-procenata-zena.html> [Three percent
    threshold, 40 percent of women on the lists]. /Radio Television of
    Serbia/ (in Serbian). 8 February 2022. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20220128233232/https://www.rts.rs/page/stories/
    sr/story/9/politika/3844903/cenzus-tri-odsto-na-listama-40-
    procenata-zena.html> from the original on 28 January 2022. Retrieved
    2 June 2022.
71. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:3_71-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:3_71-1>
    ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:3_71-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-:3_71-3> ^/*e*/
    <#cite_ref-:3_71-4> ^/*f*/ <#cite_ref-:3_71-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-:
    3_71-6> ^/*h*/ <#cite_ref-:3_71-7> "Zakon o izboru narodnih
    poslanika" <https://www.pravno-informacioni-sistem.rs/
    SlGlasnikPortal/eli/rep/sgrs/skupstina/zakon/2022/14/2> [Law on
    Election of People's Deputies]. /Pravno-informacioni sistem/ (in
    Serbian). 7 February 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230529120900/https://www.pravno-informacioni-sistem.rs/
    SlGlasnikPortal/eli/rep/sgrs/skupstina/zakon/2022/14/2> from the
    original on 29 May 2023. Retrieved 29 May 2023.
72. *^ <#cite_ref-72>* Bjelotomić, Snežana (13 January 2020). "Electoral
    threshold reduced to 3%" <https://www.serbianmonitor.com/en/
    electoral-threshold-reduced-to-3/>. /Serbian Monitor/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20200514235617/https://
    www.serbianmonitor.com/en/electoral-threshold-reduced-to-3/> from
    the original on 14 May 2020. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
73. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:4_73-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:4_73-1>
    "Serbia: National Assembly" <https://data.ipu.org/node/151/
    elections?chamber_id=13558>. /Inter-Parliamentary Union/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20221231175720/https://data.ipu.org/
    node/151/elections?chamber_id=13558> from the original on 31
    December 2022. Retrieved 31 December 2022.
74. *^ <#cite_ref-74>* "O izborima za narodne poslanike" <https://
    www.rik.parlament.gov.rs/tekst/sr/77/o-izborima-za-narodne-
    poslanike.php> [About elections for deputies]. /Republic Electoral
    Commission/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230529120900/https://www.rik.parlament.gov.rs/tekst/sr/77/o-
    izborima-za-narodne-poslanike.php> from the original on 29 May 2023.
    Retrieved 29 May 2023.
75. *^ <#cite_ref-:30_75-0>* "Počinje izborna trka, predaja lista
    najkasnije 20 dana pre izbora" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/politika/
    pocinje-izborna-trka-predaja-lista-najkasnije-20-dana-pre-
    izbora_1489448.html> [The election race begins, the list is
    submitted no later than 20 days before the election]. /Radio
    Television of Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 1 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231101114020/https://www.rtv.rs/
    sr_lat/politika/pocinje-izborna-trka-predaja-lista-najkasnije-20-
    dana-pre-izbora_1489448.html> from the original on 1 November 2023.
    Retrieved 1 November 2023.
76. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:33_76-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    33_76-1> "RIK odredio rokove za izborne radnje: Rok za podnošenje
    lista 26. novembar, izborna tišina počinje 14. decembra" <https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/rik-odredio-rokove-za-izborne-radnje-rok-za-
    podnosenje-lista-26-novembar-izborna-tisina-pocinje-14-decembra/>
    [The RIK has set deadlines for election activities: The deadline for
    submitting lists is 26 November, the election silence begins on 14
    December]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 4 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231106141419/https://nova.rs/vesti/
    politika/rik-odredio-rokove-za-izborne-radnje-rok-za-podnosenje-
    lista-26-novembar-izborna-tisina-pocinje-14-decembra/> from the
    original on 6 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November 2023.
77. *^ <#cite_ref-77>* "Vučić raspisuje izbore za novembar?" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/vucic-raspisuje-izbore-za-novembar/>
    [Vučić to call elections for November?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 10
    April 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230810230224/
    https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/vucic-raspisuje-izbore-za-
    novembar/> from the original on 10 August 2023. Retrieved 9 August 2023.
78. *^ <#cite_ref-78>* "Aleksandar Vučić u Smederevu: Izbori će biti
    najkasnije u septembru" <https://www.vreme.com/vesti/aleksandar-
    vucic-u-smederevu-izbori-ce-biti-najkasnije-u-septembru/>
    [Aleksandar Vučić in Smederevo: The elections will be held in
    September at the latest]. /Vreme/ (in Serbian). 14 May 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230514131443/https://
    www.vreme.com/vesti/aleksandar-vucic-u-smederevu-izbori-ce-biti-
    najkasnije-u-septembru/> from the original on 14 May 2023. Retrieved
    14 May 2023.
79. *^ <#cite_ref-79>* Kuzmanović, Jasmina; Savić, Miša (14 May 2023).
    "Serbian Snap Vote Possible by September, President Vucic Says"
    <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-05-14/serbian-snap-
    vote-possible-by-september-president-vucic-says>. /Bloomberg/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230514133502/https://
    www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-05-14/serbian-snap-vote-
    possible-by-september-president-vucic-says> from the original on 14
    May 2023. Retrieved 14 May 2023.
80. *^ <#cite_ref-80>* "Hoće li Srbija na prevremene parlamentarne
    izbore, Vučić kaže da je to jasno" <https://www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/
    svet-65839439> [Will Serbia hold early parliamentary elections,
    Vučić says that it is clear]. /BBC News/ (in Serbian). 7 June 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230607191613/https://
    www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/svet-65839439> from the original on 7 June
    2023. Retrieved 8 June 2023.
81. *^ <#cite_ref-81>* "Vučić najavio kad bi mogli biti novi izbori"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/vucic-izbori-kad-god-opozicija-
    hoce/> [Vučić announces when new elections could be held]. /Danas/
    (in Serbian). 13 July 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230713220203/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/vucic-izbori-kad-
    god-opozicija-hoce/> from the original on 13 July 2023. Retrieved 14
    July 2023.
82. *^ <#cite_ref-82>* Kojić, Nikola (14 July 2023). "Zašto izbori ne
    mogu biti u terminima koje je najavio Vučić" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/lokalni-i-pokrajinski-izbori-2024-godine/> [Why can't the
    elections be held in the terms announced by Vučić]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230714112751/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/lokalni-i-pokrajinski-izbori-2024-godine/>
    from the original on 14 July 2023. Retrieved 14 July 2023.
83. *^ <#cite_ref-83>* "Vučić: Imaćete izbore veoma brzo, svakako u
    narednih šest-sedam meseci" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-najvio-
    izbore/> [Vučić: You will have elections very soon, certainly in the
    next six to seven months]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 20 August 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230820133123/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-najvio-izbore/> from the original on 20 August
    2023. Retrieved 21 August 2023.
84. *^ <#cite_ref-84>* Savić, Danilo (4 September 2023). "Vučić rekao
    partnerima da se spremaju za izbore posle Nikoljdana, na beogradske
    za sada ne sme" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/saznajemo-vucic-
    rekao-partnerima-da-se-spremaju-za-izbore-posle-nikoljdana-na-
    beogradske-za-sada-ne-sme/> [Vučić told partners to prepare for the
    elections after Nikoljdan, he cannot call Belgrade elections for
    now]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230904221157/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/saznajemo-vucic-
    rekao-partnerima-da-se-spremaju-za-izbore-posle-nikoljdana-na-
    beogradske-za-sada-ne-sme/> from the original on 4 September 2023.
    Retrieved 4 September 2023.
85. *^ <#cite_ref-85>* Kojić, Nikola (5 September 2023). "N1 saznaje:
    Evo kada će biti održani vanredni izbori" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    vanredni-parlamentarni-izbori-u-decembru/> [N1 learns: Here is when
    early elections will be held]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230905185326/https://n1info.rs/vesti/vanredni-
    parlamentarni-izbori-u-decembru/> from the original on 5 September
    2023. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
86. *^ <#cite_ref-86>* Luković, Danijela (9 May 2023). "Veliki sastanak
    Vučića i Vučevića sa 1.500 aktivista SNS iz Vojvodine: Budite
    spremni za izbore, odluka pada po povratku iz Njujorka" <https://
    www.blic.rs/vesti/politika/veliki-sastanak-vucica-i-vucevica-
    sa-1500-aktivista-sns-iz-vojvodine/rcgche3> [Big gathering of Vučić
    and Vučević with 1,500 SNS activists from Vojvodina: Be ready for
    the elections, the decision falls upon the return from New York]. /
    Blic/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230906024546/https://www.blic.rs/vesti/politika/veliki-sastanak-
    vucica-i-vucevica-sa-1500-aktivista-sns-iz-vojvodine/rcgche3> from
    the original on 6 September 2023. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
87. *^ <#cite_ref-87>* "Vučić: Mogu izbori 4. marta ili nedelju dana
    ranije, ali izaći ću u susret "nepismenima"" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/vucic-raspisacemo-izbore-do-31-decembra-za-4-mart-ili-nedelju-
    dana-ranije/> [Vučić: Elections could be held on 4 March or a week
    earlier, but I will meet the "illiterate"]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 17
    September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230918082010/https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-raspisacemo-izbore-
    do-31-decembra-za-4-mart-ili-nedelju-dana-ranije/> from the original
    on 18 September 2023. Retrieved 17 September 2023.
88. *^ <#cite_ref-88>* "Vučić: Izbori bi mogli da budu 17. decembra"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-o-izborima/> [Vučić: Elections could
    be held on 17 December]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 27 September 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230927210534/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-o-izborima/> from the original on 27 September
    2023. Retrieved 27 September 2023.
89. *^ <#cite_ref-89>* "Vučić: Izbori će biti održani 17. decembra"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-izbori-ce-biti-odrzani-17-decembra/>
    [Vučić: Elections will be held on 17 December]. /N1/ (in Serbian).
    12 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231013084316/https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-izbori-ce-biti-
    odrzani-17-decembra/> from the original on 13 October 2023.
    Retrieved 12 October 2023.
90. *^ <#cite_ref-90>* Ranković, Dunja (28 September 2023). "N1 saznaje:
    Premijerka obavestila ministre da će izbori biti 17. decembra"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/n1-saznaje-parlamentarni-iztbori-ce-biti-
    odrzani-17-decembra/> [N1 learns: The Prime Minister informed the
    ministers that the elections will be held on 17 December]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230928123259/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/n1-saznaje-parlamentarni-iztbori-ce-biti-
    odrzani-17-decembra/> from the original on 28 September 2023.
    Retrieved 28 September 2023.
91. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:26_91-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    26_91-1> "Šta i kad mora da se uradi da bi se izbori održali 17.
    decembra?" <https://www.vreme.com/vesti/sta-i-kad-mora-da-se-uradi-
    da-bi-se-izbori-odrzali-17-decembra/> [What and when must be done in
    order to hold the elections on 17 December?]. /Vreme/ (in Serbian).
    16 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231017101330/https://www.vreme.com/vesti/sta-i-kad-mora-da-se-
    uradi-da-bi-se-izbori-odrzali-17-decembra/> from the original on 17
    October 2023. Retrieved 18 October 2023.
92. *^ <#cite_ref-:25_92-0>* "Ana Brnabić najkasnije do 2. novembra mora
    da podnese ostavku, ukoliko će izbori biti 17. decembra" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/ana-brnabic-ostavka-2-novembar-
    izbori-17-decembar/> [Ana Brnabić must resign by 2 November at the
    latest, if the elections will be held on 17 December]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). 28 September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230928134939/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/ana-brnabic-
    ostavka-2-novembar-izbori-17-decembar/> from the original on 28
    September 2023. Retrieved 28 September 2023.
93. *^ <#cite_ref-93>* "Vlada uputila predlog Vučiću za raspuštanje
    Skupštine i raspisivanje izbora" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vlada-
    upucen-predlog-vucicu-za-raspustanje-skupstine-i-raspisivanju-
    izbora/> [The government submitted a proposal to Vučić for the
    dissolution of the Assembly and the announcement of elections]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 30 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231030161305/https://n1info.rs/vesti/vlada-upucen-predlog-
    vucicu-za-raspustanje-skupstine-i-raspisivanju-izbora/> from the
    original on 30 October 2023. Retrieved 30 October 2023.
94. *^ <#cite_ref-94>* "Vučić raspisao vanredne parlamentarne izbore za
    17. decembar" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-raspisao-vanredne-
    parlamentarne-izbore-za-17-decembar/> [Vučić announced snap
    parliamentary elections for 17 December]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 1
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231101090933/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-raspisao-vanredne-parlamentarne-
    izbore-za-17-decembar/> from the original on 1 November 2023.
    Retrieved 1 November 2023.
95. *^ <#cite_ref-95>* "Počinje izborna trka, predaja lista najkasnije
    20 dana pre izbora" <https://www.tanjug.rs/srbija/politika/57078/
    pocinje-izborna-trka-predaja-lista-najkasnije-20-dana-pre-izbora/
    vest> [The election race begins, the list is submitted no later than
    20 days before the election]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 1 November
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231219144937/https://
    www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/57078/pocinje-izborna-trka-predaja-
    lista-najkasnije-20-dana-pre-izbora/vest> from the original on 19
    December 2023. Retrieved 1 November 2023.
96. *^ <#cite_ref-96>* Karabeg, Omer (15 October 2023). "Može li Vučić
    da izgubi Beograd na decembarskim izborima?" <https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/most-izbori-srbija-vucic-beograd/
    32637426.html> [Can Vučić lose Belgrade in the December
    elections?]. /Radio Slobodna Evropa/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231022223944/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/most-izbori-srbija-vucic-beograd/
    32637426.html> from the original on 22 October 2023. Retrieved 22
    October 2023.
97. *^ <#cite_ref-97>* "Počela sednica Skupštine Vojvodine: Prvo
    raspuštanje, pa izbori" <https://www.021.rs/story/Novi-Sad/Vesti/
    358597/Pocela-sednica-Skupstine-Vojvodine-Prvo-raspustanje-pa-
    izbori.html> [The session of the Assembly of Vojvodina has begun:
    First the dissolution, then the elections]. /021.rs/ (in Serbian).
    16 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231116102814/https://www.021.rs/story/Novi-Sad/Vesti/358597/
    Pocela-sednica-Skupstine-Vojvodine-Prvo-raspustanje-pa-izbori.html>
    from the original on 16 November 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
98. *^ <#cite_ref-98>* "Spisak izbora i referenduma" <https://
    www.vreme.com/projekat/spisak-izbora-i-referenduma/> [List of
    elections and referendums]. /Vreme/ (in Serbian). 2 June 2016.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230812155947/https://
    www.vreme.com/projekat/spisak-izbora-i-referenduma/> from the
    original on 12 August 2023. Retrieved 21 October 2023.
99. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:06_99-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    06_99-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:06_99-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-:06_99-3>
    Valtner, Lidija (17 October 2023). "Ko će se bolje snaći u prvoj
    zimskoj kampanji, vlast ili opozicija?" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/ko-ce-se-bolje-snaci-u-prvoj-zimskoj-kampanji-vlast-ili-
    opozicija/> [Who will do better in the first winter campaign, the
    government or the opposition?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231018033120/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/ko-ce-se-bolje-snaci-u-prvoj-zimskoj-kampanji-vlast-
    ili-opozicija/> from the original on 18 October 2023. Retrieved 21
    October 2023.
100. *^ <#cite_ref-100>* Latković, Nataša (17 October 2023). "Počele
    pripreme za izbore: RIK nabavlja glasačke kutije, UV lampe,
    sprejeve, ali bez tendera" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/pocele-
    pripreme-za-izbore-rik-nabavlja-glasacke-kutije-uv-lampe-sprejeve-
    ali-bez-tendera/> [Preparations for the elections have begun: RIK is
    obtaining ballot boxes, UV lamps, sprays, but without a tender]. /
    NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231101092425/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/pocele-pripreme-za-
    izbore-rik-nabavlja-glasacke-kutije-uv-lampe-sprejeve-ali-bez-
    tendera/> from the original on 1 November 2023. Retrieved 22 October
    2023.
101. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:28_101-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    28_101-1> "Izborni uslovi se pogoršali: Pet opozicionih stranaka
    uputilo pismo međunarodnim posmatračima izbora" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/izborni-uslovi-se-pogorsali-pet-opozicionih-stranaka-uputilo-
    pismo-medjunarodnim-posmatracima-izbora/> ["Election conditions have
    worsened": Five opposition parties sent a letter to international
    election observers]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 8 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029045049/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izborni-uslovi-se-pogorsali-pet-opozicionih-stranaka-uputilo-pismo-
    medjunarodnim-posmatracima-izbora/> from the original on 29 October
    2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
102. *^ <#cite_ref-102>* "Milivojević u Markeru: Izborni uslovi za
    opoziciju sada možda i gori nego pre" <https://insajder.net/teme/
    milivojevic-u-markeru-izborni-uslovi-za-opoziciju-sada-mozda-i-gori-
    nego-pre-video> [Milivojević in Marker: Election conditions for the
    opposition may be worse now than before]. /Insajder/ (in Serbian).
    29 September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231029045050/https://insajder.net/teme/milivojevic-u-markeru-
    izborni-uslovi-za-opoziciju-sada-mozda-i-gori-nego-pre-video> from
    the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
103. *^ <#cite_ref-103>* Miljuš, Stefan (19 September 2023). "Ključni
    izazovi predstojećih izbora u Srbiji: Mediji, funkcionerska kampanja
    i kontrola birališta" <https://www.glasamerike.net/a/srbija-izbori-
    problemi-mediji-kampanja-sns-opozicija/7274783.html> [Key challenges
    of the upcoming elections in Serbia: Media, campaign of party
    officials, and polling station control]. /Voice of America/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029045050/
    https://www.glasamerike.net/a/srbija-izbori-problemi-mediji-
    kampanja-sns-opozicija/7274783.html> from the original on 29 October
    2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
104. *^ <#cite_ref-104>* "Premijerka Srbije pozvala OEBS na izbore"
    <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/izvori-srbija-oebs-brnabic-pismo/
    32629805.html> [The Prime Minister of Serbia invites OSCE to the
    elections]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian). 9 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029045049/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/izvori-srbija-oebs-brnabic-pismo/
    32629805.html> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 23
    October 2023.
105. *^ <#cite_ref-105>* "Ana Brnabić: Opozicija instrumentalizuje OEBS"
    <https://www.vreme.com/vesti/izborni-uslovi-po-premijerki-kad-vlast-
    zove-oebs-to-je-ozbiljno-kad-opozicija-onda-nije/> [Ana Brnabić: The
    opposition is instrumentalising the OSCE]. /Vreme/ (in Serbian). 10
    October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029050554/
    https://www.vreme.com/vesti/izborni-uslovi-po-premijerki-kad-vlast-
    zove-oebs-to-je-ozbiljno-kad-opozicija-onda-nije/> from the original
    on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
106. *^ <#cite_ref-106>* "Brnabić: Opozicija želi da stvori percepciju da
    nema okvira za slobodne i demokratske izbore" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/brnabic-o-izvestaju-odihr-o-parlamentarnim-izborima-2020-
    ispunili-smo-79-odsto-preporuka/> [Brnabić: The opposition wants to
    create the perception that there is no framework for free and
    democratic elections]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 15 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231021060251/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    brnabic-o-izvestaju-odihr-o-parlamentarnim-izborima-2020-ispunili-
    smo-79-odsto-preporuka/> from the original on 21 October 2023.
    Retrieved 23 October 2023.
107. *^ <#cite_ref-107>* "Brnabić: Sprovedeno 79 osto preporuka ODIHR-a,
    postoje uslovi za demokratske izbore" <https://www.021.rs/story/
    Info/Srbija/355134/Brnabic-Sprovedeno-79-osto-preporuka-ODIHR-a-
    postoje-uslovi-za-demokratske-izbore.html> [Brnabić: 79 percent of
    ODIHR's recommendations have been implemented, conditions exist for
    democratic elections]. /021.rs/ (in Serbian). 10 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029045052/https://www.
    021.rs/story/Info/Srbija/355134/Brnabic-Sprovedeno-79-osto-
    preporuka-ODIHR-a-postoje-uslovi-za-demokratske-izbore.html> from
    the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
108. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:29_108-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    29_108-1> "Srbija i "demokratski izbori": Koliko je istinita tvrdnja
    Ane Brnabić o ispunjenju uslova OEBS-a?" <https://www.021.rs/story/
    Info/Srbija/355258/Srbija-i-demokratski-izbori-Koliko-je-istinita-
    tvrdnja-Ane-Brnabic-o-ispunjenju-uslova-OEBS-a.html> [Serbia and
    "democratic elections": How true is Ana Brnabić's claim about
    fulfilling OSCE requirements?]. /021.rs/ (in Serbian). 11 October
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231017111618/https://
    www.021.rs/story/Info/Srbija/355258/Srbija-i-demokratski-izbori-
    Koliko-je-istinita-tvrdnja-Ane-Brnabic-o-ispunjenju-uslova-OEBS-
    a.html> from the original on 17 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
109. *^ <#cite_ref-109>* Nešić, Nenad (18 October 2023). "Tajno glasanje
    u Srbiji ne postoji: Šta je o ambijentu pred izbore rečeno OEBS-u"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/tajno-glasanje-u-srbiji-ne-postoji-sta-je-
    o-ambijentu-pred-izbore-receno-oebs-u/> ["Secret voting does not
    exist in Serbia": What was told to OSCE about the environment before
    the elections]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231023144054/https://n1info.rs/vesti/tajno-
    glasanje-u-srbiji-ne-postoji-sta-je-o-ambijentu-pred-izbore-receno-
    oebs-u/> from the original on 23 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October
    2023.
110. *^ <#cite_ref-110>* "ODIHR: Za izbore u Srbiji misija u punom
    kapacitetu, 30 dugoročnih posmatrača i 250 na dan izbora" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/odihr-za-izbore-u-srbiji-misija-u-punom-
    kapacitetu-30-dugorocnih-posmatraca-i-250-na-dan-izbora/> [ODIHR:
    For the elections in Serbia, the mission is at full capacity, 30
    long-term observers and 250 on election day]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 26
    October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231026105331/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/odihr-za-izbore-u-srbiji-misija-u-punom-
    kapacitetu-30-dugorocnih-posmatraca-i-250-na-dan-izbora/> from the
    original on 26 October 2023. Retrieved 26 October 2023.
111. *^ <#cite_ref-111>* "KOMS prati izbore – koliko, kada i na koji
    način se stranke obraćaju mladima" <https://n1info.rs/?p=11812579>
    [KOMS to monitor the elections – how much, when and in what way the
    parties address the youth]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 16 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231219144838/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/koms-prati-izbore-koliko-kada-i-na-koji-
    nacin-se-stranke-obracaju-mladima/> from the original on 19 December
    2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
112. *^ <#cite_ref-112>* Radišić, Nikola (21 November 2023). "Delegacija
    Saveta Evrope posmatrač na izborima u Srbiji" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/izbori-2023/delegacija-saveta-evrope-posmatrac-na-izborima-u-
    srbiji/> [The delegation of the Council of Europe will observe the
    elections in Serbia]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231121213822/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/delegacija-saveta-evrope-posmatrac-na-izborima-u-srbiji/
    > from the original on 21 November 2023. Retrieved 21 November 2023.
113. *^ <#cite_ref-113>* "Izbore u Srbiji sutra će pratiti 5.587 domaćih
    i stranih posmatrača" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/
    64928/izbore-u-srbiji-sutra-ce-pratiti-5587-domacih-i-stranih-
    posmatraca/vest> [5,587 domestic and foreign observers will monitor
    the elections in Serbia tomorrow]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 16
    December 2023. Retrieved 16 December 2023.
114. *^ <#cite_ref-114>* "Zabrana funkcionerske kampanje se produžava na
    mesec dana" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/politika/5297613/zabrana-
    funkcionerske-kampanje-se-produzava-na-mesec-dana.html> [The
    campaign of party officials ban is extended for one month]. /Radio
    Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 25 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231026105331/https://www.rts.rs/lat/
    vesti/politika/5297613/zabrana-funkcionerske-kampanje-se-produzava-
    na-mesec-dana.html> from the original on 26 October 2023. Retrieved
    26 October 2023.
115. *^ <#cite_ref-115>* "Usvojeni medijski zakoni: Telekom će moći da
    osniva medije" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/poslanici-usvojili-zakon-o-
    javnom-informisanju-i-medijima/> [Adopted media laws: Telekom will
    be able to establish media]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 26 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231026105329/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/poslanici-usvojili-zakon-o-javnom-informisanju-i-
    medijima/> from the original on 26 October 2023. Retrieved 26
    October 2023.
116. *^ <#cite_ref-116>* "Imenovan Nadzorni odbor za izbornu kampanju"
    <https://www.b92.net/info/vesti/index.php?
    yyyy=2023&mm=10&dd=26&nav_category=11&nav_id=2422070> [Appointed
    Supervisory Board for the election campaign]. /B92/ (in Serbian). 26
    October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231028221745/
    https://www.b92.net/info/vesti/index.php?
    yyyy=2023&mm=10&dd=26&nav_category=11&nav_id=2422070> from the
    original on 28 October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
117. *^ <#cite_ref-117>* "Skupština Srbije formirala Nadzorni odbor za
    izbornu kampanju" <https://beta.rs/content/194116-skupstina-srbije-
    formirala-nadzorni-odbor-za-izbornu-kampanju> [The Assembly of
    Serbia formed the Supervisory Board for the Election Campaign]. /
    Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 13 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231113094659/https://beta.rs/content/
    194116-skupstina-srbije-formirala-nadzorni-odbor-za-izbornu-
    kampanju> from the original on 13 November 2023. Retrieved 13
    November 2023.
118. *^ <#cite_ref-118>* "OEBS: Prosledili smo zahtev Prištini, nadamo se
    da ćemo prikupljati glasove kao ranije" <https://www.tanjug.rs/
    izbori-2023/vesti/59548/oebs-prosledili-smo-zahtev-pristini-nadamo-
    se-da-cemo-prikupljati-glasove-kao-ranije/vest> [OSCE: We forwarded
    the request to Pristina, we hope to collect votes as before]. /
    Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 15 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231219144832/https://www.tanjug.rs/
    izbori-2023/vesti/59548/oebs-prosledili-smo-zahtev-pristini-nadamo-
    se-da-cemo-prikupljati-glasove-kao-ranije/vest> from the original on
    19 December 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
119. *^ <#cite_ref-119>* "Kurti: Srpski izbori na Kosovu mogući samo uz
    poseban dogovor" <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/izbori-srbija-
    kosovo/32691143.html> [Kurti: Serbian elections in Kosovo are only
    possible with a special agreement]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in
    Serbian). 19 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231120012115/https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/izbori-srbija-
    kosovo/32691143.html> from the original on 20 November 2023.
    Retrieved 20 November 2023.
120. *^ <#cite_ref-120>* "RIK: Birači sa Kosova moći će da glasaju u
    Vranju, Kuršumliji, Raškoj i Tutinu" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/rik-biraci-sa-kosova-moci-ce-da-glasaju-u-vranju-
    kursumliji-raskoj-i-tutinu/> [RIK: Voters from Kosovo will be able
    to vote in Vranje, Kuršumlija, Raška and Tutin]. /N1/ (in Serbian).
    23 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231123215136/https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-biraci-sa-
    kosova-moci-ce-da-glasaju-u-vranju-kursumliji-raskoj-i-tutinu/> from
    the original on 23 November 2023. Retrieved 23 November 2023.
121. *^ <#cite_ref-121>* "EU smatra da odluka Kosova da ne dozvoli
    glasanje nije u skladu s dijalogom" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/eu-smatra-da-odluka-kosova-da-ne-dozvoli-glasanje-nije-
    u-skladu-s-dijalogom/> [The EU considers that Kosovo's decision not
    to allow voting is not in accordance with the dialogue]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 29 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231202063727/https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/eu-smatra-da-
    odluka-kosova-da-ne-dozvoli-glasanje-nije-u-skladu-s-dijalogom/>
    from the original on 2 December 2023. Retrieved 29 November 2023.
122. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:22_122-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    22_122-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:22_122-2> Kovačević, Miladin (2022). /
    Izbori za narodne poslanike Narodne skupštine Republike Srbije/
    <https://publikacije.stat.gov.rs/G2022/Pdf/G20226010.pdf> [/
    Elections for deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of
    Serbia/] (PDF) (in Serbian). Belgrade: Republički zavod za
    statistiku. p. 7. ISBN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISBN_(identifier)> 978-86-6161-221-3 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Special:BookSources/978-86-6161-221-3>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20221214192056/https://publikacije.stat.gov.rs/
    G2022/Pdf/G20226010.pdf> (PDF) from the original on 14 December
    2022. Retrieved 14 December 2022.
123. *^ <#cite_ref-123>* "RIK objavio konačne rezultate parlamentarnih
    izbora" <https://n1info.rs/izbori-2022/parlamentarni-izbori/rik-
    objavio-konacne-rezultate-parlamentarnih-izbora/> [RIK publishes
    final results of the parliamentary elections]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 5
    July 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231016094748/
    https://n1info.rs/izbori-2022/parlamentarni-izbori/rik-objavio-
    konacne-rezultate-parlamentarnih-izbora/> from the original on 16
    October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
124. *^ <#cite_ref-124>* "Kamberi će biti poslanik u Skupštini Srbije"
    <https://n1info.rs/izbori-2022/parlamentarni-izbori/kamberi-ce-biti-
    poslanik-u-skupstini-srbije/> [Kamberi will be a deputy in the
    National Assembly]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 28 April 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231016094752/https://n1info.rs/
    izbori-2022/parlamentarni-izbori/kamberi-ce-biti-poslanik-u-
    skupstini-srbije/> from the original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved
    14 October 2023.
125. *^ <#cite_ref-125>* "Albancima mesto u Skupštini Srbije, kažu prvi
    rezultati ponovljenih izbora u Velikom Trnovcu" <https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/izbori-peti-pu-veliki-trnovac/
    31922754.html> [Albanians get a seat in the Serbian Parliament,
    according to the first results of repeated elections in Veliki
    Trnovac]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian). 1 July 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230418230435/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/izbori-peti-pu-veliki-trnovac/
    31922754.html> from the original on 18 April 2023. Retrieved 14
    October 2023.
126. *^ <#cite_ref-126>* "Srbija dobila novi saziv parlamenta" <https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/srbija-skupstina-konstituirajuca-sjednica/
    31968953.html> [Serbia receives a new convocation of the
    parliament]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian). 1 August 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231002153716/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/srbija-skupstina-konstituirajuca-sjednica/
    31968953.html> from the original on 2 October 2023. Retrieved 4 June
    2023.
127. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:7_127-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    7_127-1> Janković, Marija (1 August 2022). "Ko je ko u Skupštini
    Srbije" <https://www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/srbija-62377118> [Who is
    who in the Serbian Parliament]. /BBC News/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20220812001534/https://www.bbc.com/
    serbian/lat/srbija-62377118> from the original on 12 August 2022.
    Retrieved 4 June 2023.
128. *^ <#cite_ref-128>* "Vladimir Orlić izabran za predsednika Narodne
    skupštine Srbije" <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/vladimir-orlic-
    izabran-za-predsednika-skup%C5%A1tine-srbije/31971011.html>
    [Vladimir Orlić has been elected as the president of the National
    Assembly of Serbia]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian). 3 August
    2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231016094748/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/vladimir-orlic-izabran-za-predsednika-
    skup%C5%A1tine-srbije/31971011.html> from the original on 16 October
    2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
129. *^ <#cite_ref-129>* Radovanović, Vojin (23 August 2022). "Preminuo
    Božidar Delić, potpredsednik Skupštine i bivši komandat 549.
    motorizovane brigade" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/umro-
    bozidar-delic-potpredsednik-skupstine-i-bivsi-komandat-549-
    motorizovane-brigade/> [Božidar Delić, vice president of the
    Assembly and former commander of the 549th Motorized Brigade, passed
    away]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231016094749/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/umro-bozidar-
    delic-potpredsednik-skupstine-i-bivsi-komandat-549-motorizovane-
    brigade/> from the original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October
    2023.
130. *^ <#cite_ref-130>* "Vojislav Mihailović izabran za potpredsednika
    Narodne skupštine" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/politika/5015684/
    vojislav-mihailovic-izabran-za-potpredsednika-narodne-
    skupstine.html> [Vojislav Mihailović has been elected vice-president
    of the National Assembly]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in
    Serbian). 10 November 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231016094749/https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/politika/5015684/
    vojislav-mihailovic-izabran-za-potpredsednika-narodne-
    skupstine.html> from the original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved 14
    October 2023.
131. *^ <#cite_ref-131>* "Ko je ko u Skupštini Srbije" <https://
    www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/srbija-62377118> [Who is who in the
    Parliament]. /BBC News/ (in Serbian). 1 August 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20220812001534/https://www.bbc.com/
    serbian/lat/srbija-62377118> from the original on 12 August 2022.
    Retrieved 14 October 2023.
132. *^ <#cite_ref-132>* "Evropski regioni – Vojvodina, Sandžak,
    Preševska dolina" <https://otvoreniparlament.rs/poslanicki-klub/410>
    [European Regions – Vojvodina, Sandžak, Preševo Valley]. /Otvoreni
    Parlament/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231016094751/https://otvoreniparlament.rs/poslanicki-klub/410>
    from the original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
133. *^ <#cite_ref-133>* "Počela prva i najverovatnije poslednja sednica
    ovog saziva Skupštine Srbije: Na dnevnom redu 60 tačaka" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/pocela-prva-i-najverovatnije-poslednja-
    sednica-ovog-saziva-skupstine-srbije-na-dnevnom-redu-60-tacaka/>
    [The first and probably the last session of this convocation of the
    Serbian Parliament has begun: 60 items on the agenda]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). 23 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231024075530/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/pocela-prva-i-
    najverovatnije-poslednja-sednica-ovog-saziva-skupstine-srbije-na-
    dnevnom-redu-60-tacaka/> from the original on 24 October 2023.
    Retrieved 26 October 2023.
134. *^ <#cite_ref-134>* "Završena sednica Skupštine Srbije, usvojeno
    svih 60 predloga, sledi raspisivanje izbora" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/zavrsena-sednica-skupstine-srbije-budzet-mediji-
    izbori/> [The session of the National Assembly of Serbia has ended,
    all 60 proposals have been adopted, and the announcement of
    elections will follow]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 26 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231026150229/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/zavrsena-sednica-skupstine-srbije-
    budzet-mediji-izbori/> from the original on 26 October 2023.
    Retrieved 26 October 2023.
135. *^ <#cite_ref-135>* "Poslaničke grupe" <http://www.parlament.rs/
    narodna-skupstina-/sastav/poslanicke-grupe/poslanicke-grupe.
    901.html> [Parliamentary groups]. /National Assembly of Serbia/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220628102054/
    http://www.parlament.rs/narodna-skupstina-/sastav/poslanicke-grupe/
    poslanicke-grupe.901.html> from the original on 28 June 2022.
    Retrieved 3 August 2022.
136. *^ <#cite_ref-:14_136-0>* Vlaović, G. (12 September 2022). "Vučić
    gasi Srpsku naprednu stranku i formira "Moju Srbiju"?" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/vucic-gasi-srpsku-naprednu-stranku-i-
    formira-moju-srbiju/> [Vučić to shut down the Serbian Progressive
    Party and form "My Serbia"?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20221205020215/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/vucic-gasi-srpsku-naprednu-stranku-i-formira-moju-
    srbiju/> from the original on 5 December 2022. Retrieved 2 June 2023.
137. *^ <#cite_ref-137>* "Novosti: Vučić formira Narodni pokret za državu
    i kreće u obilazak Srbije" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/novosti-vucic-
    zapocinje-formiranje-narodnog-pokreta-za-drzavu/> [Novosti: Vučić to
    form the People's Movement for the State and to embark on a tour of
    Serbia]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 8 March 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230309131506/https://n1info.rs/vesti/novosti-
    vucic-zapocinje-formiranje-narodnog-pokreta-za-drzavu/> from the
    original on 9 March 2023. Retrieved 11 March 2023.
138. *^ <#cite_ref-138>* Stojković, Anđelija (9 March 2023). "Niko neće
    ukinuti SNS" <http://fonet.rs/politika/36276320/niko-nece-ukinuti-
    sns.html> [No one will abolish SNS]. /FoNet portal/ (in Serbian).
    Retrieved 2 June 2023.
139. *^ <#cite_ref-:10_139-0>* "Vučić najavio povlačenje sa čela SNS-a
    27. maja, formiranje Narodnog pokreta za Srbiju na Vidovdan"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/vucic-najavio-povlacenje-sa-
    cela-sns-a-27-maja-formiranje-narodnog-pokreta-za-srbiju-na-
    vidovdan/> [Vučić announces his resignation from the leadership of
    SNS on 27 May, the formation of the People's Movement for Serbia on
    Vidovdan]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 20 April 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230601214021/http://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/vucic-najavio-povlacenje-sa-cela-sns-a-27-maja-formiranje-
    narodnog-pokreta-za-srbiju-na-vidovdan/> from the original on 1 June
    2023. Retrieved 2 June 2023.
140. *^ <#cite_ref-:11_140-0>* "Vučević: Vučić će biti lider novog
    pokreta, nema razloga za strah" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucevic-
    vucic-ce-biti-lider-novog-pokreta-nema-razloga-za-strah/> [Vučević:
    Vučić will be the leader of the new movement, there is no reason to
    fear]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 28 May 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230602032602/https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucevic-
    vucic-ce-biti-lider-novog-pokreta-nema-razloga-za-strah/> from the
    original on 2 June 2023. Retrieved 2 June 2023.
141. *^ <#cite_ref-:102_141-0>* "Vučić najavio povlačenje sa čela SNS-a
    27. maja, formiranje Narodnog pokreta za Srbiju na Vidovdan"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/vucic-najavio-povlacenje-sa-
    cela-sns-a-27-maja-formiranje-narodnog-pokreta-za-srbiju-na-
    vidovdan/> [Vučić announced his resignation from the leadership of
    SNS on 27 May, the formation of the People's Movement for Serbia on
    Vidovdan]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 20 April 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230420210504/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/vucic-najavio-povlacenje-sa-cela-sns-a-27-maja-formiranje-
    narodnog-pokreta-za-srbiju-na-vidovdan/> from the original on 20
    April 2023. Retrieved 21 April 2023.
142. *^ <#cite_ref-142>* "Vučević: Ne kasnimo sa novim pokretom za
    državu, videćete kako ćemo ga formirati" <https://www.021.rs/story/
    Info/Srbija/349502/Vucevic-Ne-kasnimo-sa-novim-pokretom-za-drzavu-
    videcete-kako-cemo-ga-formirati.html> [Vučević: We are not late with
    the new movement for the state, you will see how we will form it]. /
    021.rs/ (in Serbian). 11 August 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230812011005/https://www.021.rs/story/Info/
    Srbija/349502/Vucevic-Ne-kasnimo-sa-novim-pokretom-za-drzavu-
    videcete-kako-cemo-ga-formirati.html> from the original on 12 August
    2023. Retrieved 12 August 2023.
143. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:18_143-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    18_143-1> Kojić, Nikola (1 October 2023). "Zašto ni Vučić više ne
    pominje Narodni pokret za državu" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-
    narodni-pokret-za-drzavu/> [Why even Vučić no longer mentions the
    People's Movement for the State]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231006131009/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    vucic-narodni-pokret-za-drzavu/> from the original on 6 October
    2023. Retrieved 8 October 2023.
144. *^ <#cite_ref-144>* "Predrag Marković protiv utapanja SPS u Vučićev
    Narodni pokret za državu" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/predrag-
    markovic-protiv-utapanja-sps-u-vucicev-narodni-pokret-za-drzavu/>
    [Predrag Marković against submerging the SPS in Vučić's People's
    Movement for the State]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 8 June 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230626122020/https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/predrag-markovic-protiv-utapanja-sps-u-
    vucicev-narodni-pokret-za-drzavu/> from the original on 26 June
    2023. Retrieved 26 June 2023.
145. *^ <#cite_ref-145>* "Narodni pokret za državu i dalje samo u najavi
    – koliko je izvesno njegovo skorije formiranje?" <https://
    www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/99820/narodni-pokret-za-drzavu-i-
    dalje-samo-u-najavi-koliko-je-izvesno-njegovo-skorije-formiranje/
    vest> [The People's Movement for the State is still only in the
    announcement – how certain is its recent formation?]. /Euronews/ (in
    Serbian). 18 September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231012200008/https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/99820/
    narodni-pokret-za-drzavu-i-dalje-samo-u-najavi-koliko-je-izvesno-
    njegovo-skorije-formiranje/vest> from the original on 12 October
    2023. Retrieved 8 October 2023.
146. *^ <#cite_ref-146>* Radovanović, Vojin (17 October 2023). ""Bio
    formiran ili ne – svešće se na slogan": Svi rokovi prošli, izbori se
    bliže, a Narodnog pokreta za državu još nema" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/aleksandar-vucic-narodni-pokret-za-drzavu-
    vukadinovic-andjelkovic-izbori/> ["Whether formed or not – it will
    come down to a slogan": All deadlines have passed, the elections are
    approaching, and there is still no People's Movement for the
    State]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231018014914/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/aleksandar-vucic-
    narodni-pokret-za-drzavu-vukadinovic-andjelkovic-izbori/> from the
    original on 18 October 2023. Retrieved 18 October 2023.
147. *^ <#cite_ref-147>* Lukač, Davor (22 October 2023). "Uskoro narodni
    pokret" <http://fonet.rs/politika/36380453/uskoro-narodni-
    pokret.html> [The People's Movement will be formed soon]. /FoNet
    portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231029045054/https://fonet.rs/politika/36380453/uskoro-narodni-
    pokret.html> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 23
    October 2023.
148. *^ <#cite_ref-148>* "Vučić: Izbore raspisujem u sredu ili četvrtak"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-otkrio-kada-ce-raspisati-izbore/>
    [Vučić: I am calling the elections on Wednesday or Thursday]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 27 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231029200528/https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-otkrio-kada-ce-
    raspisati-izbore/> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved
    29 October 2023.
149. *^ <#cite_ref-149>* "Žigmanov: DSHV ide na izbore u koaliciji jer u
    Srbiji manjine nemaju garantovana mesta u parlamentu" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/zigmanov-dshv-ide-na-izbore-u-koaliciji-jer-u-
    srbiji-manjine-nemaju-garantovana-mesta-u-parlamentu/> [Žigmanov:
    DSHV will take part in the elections in a coalition because
    minorities in Serbia do not have guaranteed seats in the
    parliament]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 8 October 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231009015854/https://n1info.rs/vesti/zigmanov-
    dshv-ide-na-izbore-u-koaliciji-jer-u-srbiji-manjine-nemaju-
    garantovana-mesta-u-parlamentu/> from the original on 9 October
    2023. Retrieved 8 October 2023.
150. *^ <#cite_ref-150>* "Socijaldemokratska partija Srbije saopštila da
    na izbore izlazi u koaliciji sa naprednjacima" <https://beta.rs/
    content/193130-socijaldemokratska-partija-srbije-saopstila-da-na-
    izbore-izlazi-u-koaliciji-sa-naprednjacima> [The Social Democratic
    Party of Serbia announced that it is going to the elections in a
    coalition with the Progressives]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in
    Serbian). 28 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231029113219/https://beta.rs/content/193130-socijaldemokratska-
    partija-srbije-saopstila-da-na-izbore-izlazi-u-koaliciji-sa-
    naprednjacima> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 29
    October 2023.
151. *^ <#cite_ref-151>* Novosel, S. (22 October 2023). "SZS samostalno
    izlazi na parlamentarne izbore" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/szs-samostalno-izlazi-na-parlamentarne-izbore/> [SZS goes
    to parliamentary elections independently]. /Danas/ (in Serbian).
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231023031129/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/szs-samostalno-izlazi-na-parlamentarne-
    izbore/> from the original on 23 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October
    2023.
152. *^ <#cite_ref-152>* Bednar, Bojan (18 October 2023). "Bez jedne
    liste SPS i SNS" <http://fonet.rs/politika/36378400/bez-jedne-liste-
    sps-i-sns.html> [Without a single list of SPS and SNS]. /FoNet
    portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231021133443/https://fonet.rs/politika/36378400/bez-jedne-liste-
    sps-i-sns.html> from the original on 21 October 2023. Retrieved 18
    October 2023.
153. *^ <#cite_ref-153>* "Toma Fila: SPS će na izbore izaći sama na
    listi" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/toma-fila-sps-ce-na-izbore-
    izaci-sama-na-listi/> [Toma Fila: SPS will go to the elections with
    its own list]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 29 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029200529/https://nova.rs/vesti/
    politika/toma-fila-sps-ce-na-izbore-izaci-sama-na-listi/> from the
    original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
154. *^ <#cite_ref-154>* "SSP, PSG, Pokret za preokret i Sindikat Sloga
    zajedno u Skupštinu, predvodnik Marinika Tepić" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/ssp-psg-pokret-za-preokret-i-sindikat-
    sloga-zajedno-u-skupstinu-predvodnik-marinika-tepic/> [SSP, PSG, the
    Movement for Reversal and Union Sloga together in the Assembly, to
    be led by Marinika Tepić]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 24 May 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220525063207/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/ssp-psg-pokret-za-preokret-i-sindikat-
    sloga-zajedno-u-skupstinu-predvodnik-marinika-tepic/> from the
    original on 25 May 2022. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
155. *^ <#cite_ref-155>* Đurić, Vanja (19 July 2023). "Poslanička grupa
    "Ujedinjeni" menja naziv" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/poslanicka-grupa-
    ujedinjeni-menja-naziv/> [Parliamentary group "United" is changing
    its name]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230719090740/https://n1info.rs/vesti/poslanicka-grupa-ujedinjeni-
    menja-naziv/> from the original on 19 July 2023. Retrieved 19 July 2023.
156. *^ <#cite_ref-156>* "Zdravko Ponoš napustio Narodnu stranku"
    <https://www.politika.rs/sr/clanak/504075/Zdravko-Ponos-napustio-
    Narodnu-stranku> [Zdravko Ponoš left the People's Party]. /Politika/
    (in Serbian). 5 April 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220410135816/https://www.politika.rs/sr/clanak/504075/Zdravko-
    Ponos-napustio-Narodnu-stranku> from the original on 10 April 2022.
    Retrieved 29 May 2023.
157. *^ <#cite_ref-:12_157-0>* "Ponoš i zvanično izabran za predsednika
    pokreta SRCE" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/ponos-i-zvanicno-izabran-za-
    predsednika-pokreta-srce/> [Ponoš is officially elected as the
    president of the movement SRCE]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 4 December 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230530193914/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/ponos-i-zvanicno-izabran-za-predsednika-pokreta-
    srce/> from the original on 30 May 2023. Retrieved 29 May 2023.
158. *^ <#cite_ref-158>* "Srbija Centar upisan u registar političkih
    stranaka" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/srbija-centar-upisan-
    u-registar-politickih-stranaka/> [Serbia Centre registered in the
    register of political parties]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 23 July 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230724064030/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/srbija-centar-upisan-u-registar-
    politickih-stranaka/> from the original on 24 July 2023. Retrieved
    25 July 2023.
159. *^ <#cite_ref-159>* "Pokret Slobodna Srbija postaje deo Demokratske
    stranke" <http://www.rts.rs/page/stories/sr/story/9/politika/
    4941659/ds-glavni-odbor-pss-.html> [The Movement of Free Serbia to
    become part of the Democratic Party]. /Radio Television of Serbia/
    (in Serbian). 4 September 2022. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230126230001/https://www.rts.rs/page/stories/sr/story/9/
    politika/4941659/ds-glavni-odbor-pss-.html> from the original on 26
    January 2023. Retrieved 29 May 2023.
160. *^ <#cite_ref-160>* Čongradin, Snežana (15 June 2022). "Čije je
    "Moramo" i zašto: Sagovornici Danasa o tome ko je u pravu u borbi za
    brend imena koalicije" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/cije-je-
    moramo-i-zasto-sagovornici-danasa-o-tome-ko-je-u-pravu-u-borbi-za-
    brend-imena-koalicije/> [Who is "We Must" and why: Danas
    interviewees on who is right in the fight for the brand name of the
    coalition]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20220713003316/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/cije-je-
    moramo-i-zasto-sagovornici-danasa-o-tome-ko-je-u-pravu-u-borbi-za-
    brend-imena-koalicije/> from the original on 13 July 2022. Retrieved
    29 May 2023.
161. *^ <#cite_ref-161>* Mirilović, Filip (1 June 2022). "Aleksandar
    Jovanović Ćuta: Moramo se neće deliti kao amebe" <https://
    www.vreme.com/vesti/aleksandar-jovanovic-cuta-moramo-se-nece-deliti-
    kao-amebe/> [Aleksandar Jovanović Ćuta: We Must will not divide like
    amoebas]. /Vreme/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20220609075729/https://www.vreme.com/vesti/aleksandar-jovanovic-
    cuta-moramo-se-nece-deliti-kao-amebe/> from the original on 9 June
    2022. Retrieved 2 June 2022.
162. *^ <#cite_ref-:03_162-0>* "Deo koalicije "Moramo" formirao političku
    organizaciju "Zajedno"" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/deo-
    koalicije-moramo-formirao-politicku-organizaciju-zajedno/> [Part of
    the "We Must" coalition forms the "Together" political
    organisation]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 11 June 2022. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20220611164645/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/deo-koalicije-moramo-formirao-politicku-organizaciju-
    zajedno/> from the original on 11 June 2022. Retrieved 1 July 2022.
163. *^ <#cite_ref-163>* "Politička platforma Solidarnost se priključila
    stranci Zajedno" <https://beta.rs/politika/174777-politicka-
    platforma-solidarnost-se-prikljucila-stranci-zajedno> [Political
    Platform Solidarity joins the Together party]. /Novinska agencija
    Beta/ (in Serbian). 20 January 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230121134538/https://beta.rs/politika/174777-
    politicka-platforma-solidarnost-se-prikljucila-stranci-zajedno> from
    the original on 21 January 2023. Retrieved 21 January 2023.
164. *^ <#cite_ref-164>* Latković, Nataša (6 September 2023). "Ćuta
    podnosi ostavku: "Ovo je kap koja je prelila čašu"" <https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/cuta-podnosi-ostavku-ovo-je-kap-koja-je-
    prelila-casu/> [Ćuta resigned: "This is the drop that poured the
    glass"]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230906113343/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    cuta-podnosi-ostavku-ovo-je-kap-koja-je-prelila-casu/> from the
    original on 6 September 2023. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
165. *^ <#cite_ref-165>* "Ćuta Jovanović u poslaničkom klubu sa Aleksićem
    i Parandilovićem" <https://beta.rs/content/190422-poslanici-
    ekoloskog-ustanka-u-poslanickom-klubu-sa-aleksicem-i-parandilovicem>
    [Ćuta Jovanović in the parliamentary group with Aleksić and
    Parandilović]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 15 September
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230920105919/https://
    beta.rs/content/190422-poslanici-ekoloskog-ustanka-u-poslanickom-
    klubu-sa-aleksicem-i-parandilovicem> from the original on 20
    September 2023. Retrieved 17 September 2023.
166. *^ <#cite_ref-:04_166-0>* "Pokret "Ne davimo Beograd" prerasta u
    partiju" <http://www.rts.rs/page/stories/sr/story/9/politika/
    4856920/ne-davimo-beograd-partija.html> [Movement "Do not let
    Belgrade drown" is becoming a political party]. /Radio Television of
    Serbia/ (in Serbian). 21 June 2022. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230210112202/https://www.rts.rs/page/stories/
    sr/story/9/politika/4856920/ne-davimo-beograd-partija.html> from the
    original on 10 February 2023. Retrieved 29 May 2023.
167. *^ <#cite_ref-167>* "Pavićević: Počelo prikupljanje potpisa za
    formiranje partije Zeleno-levi front" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    pavicevic-pocelo-prikupljanje-potpisa-za-formiranje-partije-zeleno-
    levi-front/> [Pavićević: The collection of signatures for the
    formation of the Green-Left Front party has begun]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 23 May 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230529122826/https://n1info.rs/vesti/pavicevic-pocelo-
    prikupljanje-potpisa-za-formiranje-partije-zeleno-levi-front/> from
    the original on 29 May 2023. Retrieved 29 May 2023.
168. *^ <#cite_ref-:13_168-0>* Spalović, Dejan (6 February 2023). "Ne
    davimo Beograd menja ime u zeleno-levi front" <https://
    www.politika.rs/sr/clanak/536296/Ne-davimo-Beograd-menja-ime-u-
    zeleno-levi-front> [Do not let Belgrade drown to change its name to
    Green-Left Front]. /Politika/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230212070500/https://www.politika.rs/sr/
    clanak/536296/Ne-davimo-Beograd-menja-ime-u-zeleno-levi-front> from
    the original on 12 February 2023. Retrieved 29 May 2023.
169. *^ <#cite_ref-:52_169-0>* "Pokret Ne davimo Beograd danas je
    zvanično postao stranka Zeleno-levi front" <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230714191427/https://beta.rs/content/186711-pokret-ne-davimo-
    beograd-danas-je-zvanicno-postao-stranka-zeleno-levi-front> [The Do
    not let Belgrade drown movement officially became the Green-Left
    Front party today]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 14 July
    2023. Archived from the original <https://beta.rs/content/186711-
    pokret-ne-davimo-beograd-danas-je-zvanicno-postao-stranka-zeleno-
    levi-front> on 14 July 2023. Retrieved 14 July 2023.
170. *^ <#cite_ref-170>* Jelovac, Jelena (21 June 2023). "Šta se to
    dešava u Narodnoj stranci i da li Vuk Jeremić i Miki Aleksić vode
    tihi rat? Jer nešto se definitivno dešava" <https://nova.rs/vesti/
    politika/sta-se-to-desava-u-narodnoj-stranci-i-da-li-vuk-jeremic-i-
    miki-aleksic-vode-tihi-rat-jer-nesto-se-definitivno-desava/> [What
    is happening in the People's Party and are Vuk Jeremić and Miki
    Aleksić fighting a silent war? Because something is definitely
    happening]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230715143709/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    sta-se-to-desava-u-narodnoj-stranci-i-da-li-vuk-jeremic-i-miki-
    aleksic-vode-tihi-rat-jer-nesto-se-definitivno-desava/> from the
    original on 15 July 2023. Retrieved 15 July 2023.
171. *^ <#cite_ref-171>* "Izabran novi Izvršni odbor Narodne stranke,
    Aleksić ostaje potpredsednik i šef poslaničke grupe" <https://
    beta.rs/content/186729-izabran-novi-izvrsni-odbor-narodne-stranke-
    aleksic-ostaje-potpredsednik-i-sef-poslanicke-grupe> [The new
    executive committee of the People's Party has been elected, Aleksić
    remains vice-president and head of the parliamentary group]. /
    Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 15 July 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230715144651/https://beta.rs/content/
    186729-izabran-novi-izvrsni-odbor-narodne-stranke-aleksic-ostaje-
    potpredsednik-i-sef-poslanicke-grupe> from the original on 15 July
    2023. Retrieved 15 July 2023.
172. *^ <#cite_ref-172>* Kamenković, Sonja (15 July 2023). "Aleksić: Ovo
    je sada frontalni sukob između Jeremića i mene" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/aleksic-ovo-je-sada-frontalni-sukob-izmedju-jeremica-i-mene/>
    [Aleksić: This is now a frontal conflict between Jeremić and me]. /
    N1/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230715173448/https://n1info.rs/vesti/aleksic-ovo-je-sada-
    frontalni-sukob-izmedju-jeremica-i-mene/> from the original on 15
    July 2023. Retrieved 15 July 2023.
173. *^ <#cite_ref-173>* Latković, Nataša (6 August 2023). "Miroslav
    Aleksić napustio Narodnu stranku, osniva Narodni pokret Srbije"
    <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/uzivo-miroslav-aleksic-saopstava-
    odluku-o-osnivanju-novog-pokreta-i-napustanju-narodne-stranke/>
    [Miroslav Aleksić leaves the People's Party and forms the People's
    Movement of Serbia]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230806135815/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    uzivo-miroslav-aleksic-saopstava-odluku-o-osnivanju-novog-pokreta-i-
    napustanju-narodne-stranke/> from the original on 6 August 2023.
    Retrieved 6 August 2023.
174. *^ <#cite_ref-174>* Nastevski, Aleksandar (7 August 2023). "Aleksić:
    Parandilović će biti deo naše nove poslaničke grupe, nisam promenio
    politiku, ne možemo da bežimo od evropskog puta" <https://nova.rs/
    emisije/aleksic-parandilovic-ce-biti-deo-naseg-novog-poslanickog-
    kluba-nisam-promenio-politiku-ne-mozemo-da-bezimo-od-evropskog-puta/
    > [Aleksić: Parandilović will be part of our new parliamentary
    group, I have not changed my policy, we cannot run away from the
    European path]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230807203929/https://nova.rs/emisije/aleksic-
    parandilovic-ce-biti-deo-naseg-novog-poslanickog-kluba-nisam-
    promenio-politiku-ne-mozemo-da-bezimo-od-evropskog-puta/> from the
    original on 7 August 2023. Retrieved 7 August 2023.
175. *^ <#cite_ref-175>* "Rade Basta: Formirao sam pokret Evropski put
    (PEP) i izlazim na sve predstojeće izbore" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/rade-basta-formirao-sam-pokret-evropski-put-pep-i-
    izlazim-na-sve-predstojece-izbore/> [Rade Basta: I formed the
    European Way Movement (PEP) and I am participating in all upcoming
    elections]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 20 June 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230628234253/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/rade-basta-formirao-sam-pokret-evropski-put-pep-i-izlazim-
    na-sve-predstojece-izbore/> from the original on 28 June 2023.
    Retrieved 23 October 2023.
176. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:27_176-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    27_176-1> Valtner, Lidija (10 July 2023). "Rade Basta, novi
    opozicionar ili potencijal za buduće koalicije sa SPS i SNS?"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/rade-basta-opozicija-ili-vlast/
    > [Rade Basta, new opposition member or potential for future
    coalitions with SPS and SNS?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029045049/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/rade-basta-opozicija-ili-vlast/> from the original on
    29 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
177. *^ <#cite_ref-177>* "Rade Basta najavio da će pokret Evropski put
    izaći na izbore" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/basta-izlazi-
    na-izbore/> [Rade Basta announced that the European Way Movement
    will participate in the elections]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 21
    September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231029045052/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/basta-izlazi-na-
    izbore/> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October
    2023.
178. *^ <#cite_ref-178>* "Zorana Mihajlović formirala pokret, uz nju
    Dragan Šormaz i Stanislava Pak" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/zorana-
    mihajlovic-formirala-pokret-uz-nju-dragan-sormaz-i-stanislava-pak/>
    [Zorana Mihajlović forms a movement, along with Dragan Šormaz and
    Stanislava Pak]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 29 September 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029045052/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    zorana-mihajlovic-formirala-pokret-uz-nju-dragan-sormaz-i-
    stanislava-pak/> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 23
    October 2023.
179. *^ <#cite_ref-179>* Radovanović, Vojin (29 September 2023). "Može li
    proevropska opozicija da sarađuje sa pokretima Zorane Mihajlović i
    Radeta Baste?" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/zorana-
    mihajlovic-rade-basta-srdjan-milivojevic-robert-kozma/> [Can the
    pro-European opposition cooperate with the movements of Zorana
    Mihajlović and Rade Basta?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029045050/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/zorana-mihajlovic-rade-basta-srdjan-milivojevic-
    robert-kozma/> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 23
    October 2023.
180. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:15_180-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    15_180-1> Savić, Danilo (18 August 2023). "Intervju Marinika Tepić:
    Uskoro predstavljamo novi plan protesta, verujem u zajedničku
    izbornu listu organizatora "Srbija protiv nasilja"" <https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/intervju-marinika-tepic-uskoro-predstavljamo-
    novi-plan-protesta-verujem-u-zajednicku-izbornu-listu-organizatora-
    srbija-protiv-nasilja/> [Interview Marinika Tepić: We will soon
    present a new protest plan, I believe in the joint electoral list of
    the "Serbia Against Violence" organisers]. /NOVA portal/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230821114939/
    https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/intervju-marinika-tepic-uskoro-
    predstavljamo-novi-plan-protesta-verujem-u-zajednicku-izbornu-listu-
    organizatora-srbija-protiv-nasilja/> from the original on 21 August
    2023. Retrieved 21 August 2023.
181. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:16_181-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    16_181-1> Radovanović, Vojin (18 August 2023). "Crnogorski scenario
    ili jedna kolona: Kako će opozicija izaći na naredne izbore?"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/crnogorski-scenario-ili-jedna-
    kolona-kako-ce-opozicija-izaci-na-naredne-izbore/> [The Montenegrin
    scenario or one column: How will the opposition come out in the next
    elections?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230821114938/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/crnogorski-scenario-ili-jedna-kolona-kako-ce-opozicija-
    izaci-na-naredne-izbore/> from the original on 21 August 2023.
    Retrieved 21 August 2023.
182. *^ <#cite_ref-182>* Živić, Miona (1 April 2023). "Tribina u kafani:
    "Koliko se vidi Leskovac iz Beograda? Ne vidi se od Vučića""
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/tribina-u-kafani-koliko-se-vidi-leskovac-
    iz-beograda-ne-vidi-se-od-vucica/> [Tribune in a pub: "How far can
    you see Leskovac from Belgrade? You can't see it from Vučić"]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230526223509/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/tribina-u-kafani-koliko-se-vidi-leskovac-iz-
    beograda-ne-vidi-se-od-vucica/> from the original on 26 May 2023.
    Retrieved 21 July 2023.
183. *^ <#cite_ref-183>* "DS, SRCE, Zajedno i Rumunska partija potpisali
    Deklaraciju o saradnji" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/ds-srce-zajedno-i-
    rumunska-partija-potpisali-deklaraciju-o-saradnji/> [DS, SRCE,
    Together, and the Romanian part sign a Declaration on
    Cooperation]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 30 August 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230830200027/https://n1info.rs/vesti/ds-srce-
    zajedno-i-rumunska-partija-potpisali-deklaraciju-o-saradnji/> from
    the original on 30 August 2023. Retrieved 30 August 2023.
184. *^ <#cite_ref-184>* Radovanović, Vojin (1 September 2023). "Šta mogu
    biti motivi Zajedno, DS i SRCE koji započinju zajedničko delovanje?"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/zajedno-ds-srce-deklaracija-o-
    zajednickom-delovanju-zdravko-ponos-miroslav-aleksic-nebojsa-
    zelenovic-aleksandar-jovanovic-cuta/> [What can be the motives of
    Together, DS, and SRCE who began jointly cooperating?]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230902234411/
    https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/zajedno-ds-srce-deklaracija-o-
    zajednickom-delovanju-zdravko-ponos-miroslav-aleksic-nebojsa-
    zelenovic-aleksandar-jovanovic-cuta/> from the original on 2
    September 2023. Retrieved 4 September 2023.
185. *^ <#cite_ref-185>* "Cvejić (SRCE): Postoji prostor za veću
    koalicionu saradnju u opoziciji" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/cvejic-srce-postoji-prostor-za-vecu-koalicionu-saradnju-u-
    opoziciji/> [Cvejić (SRCE): There is room for greater coalition
    cooperation in the opposition]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 2 September
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230903092957/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/cvejic-srce-postoji-prostor-za-vecu-
    koalicionu-saradnju-u-opoziciji/> from the original on 3 September
    2023. Retrieved 4 September 2023.
186. *^ <#cite_ref-186>* Milenković, M. R. (31 July 2023). "Lazović:
    Zeleno-levi front uskoro predstavlja dokument Put do pobede"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/lazoviczeleno-levi-front-
    uskoro-predstavlja-dokument-put-do-pobede/> [Lazović: The Green-Left
    Front will soon present the document Path to Victory]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230821114937/
    https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/lazoviczeleno-levi-front-uskoro-
    predstavlja-dokument-put-do-pobede/> from the original on 21 August
    2023. Retrieved 21 August 2023.
187. *^ <#cite_ref-187>* "Lazović: Jedna kolona opozicije nije imperativ,
    dovela bi do gubitka glasova" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    lazovic-jedna-kolona-opozicije-nije-imperativ-dovela-bi-do-gubitka-
    glasova/> [Lazović: One bloc of the opposition is not imperative, it
    would lead to the loss of votes]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 2
    September 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230904220253/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/lazovic-jedna-kolona-
    opozicije-nije-imperativ-dovela-bi-do-gubitka-glasova/> from the
    original on 4 September 2023. Retrieved 4 September 2023.
188. *^ <#cite_ref-188>* "Organizatori protesta potpisali "Dogovor za
    pobedu"" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/organizatori-protesta-potpisali-
    dogovor-za-pobedu/> [Protest organisers signed the "Agreement for
    Victory"]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 21 September 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230921165349/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    organizatori-protesta-potpisali-dogovor-za-pobedu/> from the
    original on 21 September 2023. Retrieved 21 September 2023.
189. *^ <#cite_ref-189>* Kojić, Nikola (11 October 2023). "Jedinstvo na
    ispitu: Koliko je opozicija daleko od izlaska na izbore u jednoj
    koloni" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/opozicija-vanredni-izbori/> [Unity
    on the exam: How far is the opposition from going to the elections
    in one column]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231012200010/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    opozicija-vanredni-izbori/> from the original on 12 October 2023.
    Retrieved 11 October 2023.
190. *^ <#cite_ref-190>* Latković, Nataša (9 October 2023). "U toku
    sastanak opozicije o izborima" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    saznajemo-poceo-sastanak-opozicije-o-izborima/> [The opposition's
    meeting about the elections is underway]. /NOVA portal/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231012200010/
    https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/saznajemo-poceo-sastanak-opozicije-o-
    izborima/> from the original on 12 October 2023. Retrieved 11
    October 2023.
191. *^ <#cite_ref-191>* "Organizatori protesta "Srbija protiv nasilja":
    Nema disonantnih tonova oko jedne liste za izbore" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/organizatori-protesta-srbija-protiv-
    nasilja-nema-disonantnih-tonova-oko-jedne-liste-za-izbore/>
    [Organisers of the "Serbia Against Violence" protests: There are no
    dissonant tones around one list for the elections]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). 18 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231018114714/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/organizatori-
    protesta-srbija-protiv-nasilja-nema-disonantnih-tonova-oko-jedne-
    liste-za-izbore/> from the original on 18 October 2023. Retrieved 18
    October 2023.
192. *^ <#cite_ref-192>* "Da se struka pita spremna za učestvovanje u
    dogovoru opozicije o jednoj listi" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    da-se-struka-pita-spremna-za-ucestvovanje-u-dogovoru-opozicije-o-
    jednoj-listi/> [Experts Should Have A Say is ready to take part in
    opposition agreement for one list]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 18
    October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231022230801/
    https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/da-se-struka-pita-spremna-za-
    ucestvovanje-u-dogovoru-opozicije-o-jednoj-listi/> from the original
    on 22 October 2023. Retrieved 21 October 2023.
193. *^ <#cite_ref-193>* "Tadić: SDS želi na listu "Srbija protiv
    nasilja", razgovaramo s Miroslavom Aleksićem" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/tadic-sds-zeli-na-listu-srbija-protiv-nasilja-razgovaramo-s-
    miroslavom-aleksicem/> [Tadić: SDS wants to be on the "Serbia
    Against Violence" list, we are talking to Miroslav Aleksić]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 23 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231023214214/https://n1info.rs/vesti/tadic-sds-zeli-na-listu-
    srbija-protiv-nasilja-razgovaramo-s-miroslavom-aleksicem/> from the
    original on 23 October 2023. Retrieved 24 October 2023.
194. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:39_194-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    39_194-1> "Postignut dogovor o nastupu opozicije okupljene oko
    "Srbija protiv nasilja" na izborima" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/n1-
    saznaje-postignut-dogovor-o-nastupu-opozicije-okupljene-oko-srbija-
    protiv-nasilja-na-izborima/> [An agreement was reached on the
    appearance of the opposition gathered around "Serbia Against
    Violence" in the elections]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 26 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231026205233/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/n1-saznaje-postignut-dogovor-o-nastupu-opozicije-
    okupljene-oko-srbija-protiv-nasilja-na-izborima/> from the original
    on 26 October 2023. Retrieved 26 October 2023.
195. *^ <#cite_ref-195>* Dragojlo, Saša (27 October 2023). "Serbia's Pro-
    European Opposition Makes Unity Pact for Elections" <https://
    balkaninsight.com/2023/10/27/serbias-pro-european-opposition-makes-
    unity-pact-for-elections/>. /Balkan Insight/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231027153742/https://balkaninsight.com/
    2023/10/27/serbias-pro-european-opposition-makes-unity-pact-for-
    elections/> from the original on 27 October 2023. Retrieved 27
    October 2023.
196. *^ <#cite_ref-196>* "Aleksić: Probudila se tiha većina u Srbiji,
    opozicija u što širi blok za izbore" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    aleksic-probudila-se-tiha-vecina-u-srbiji-opozicija-u-sto-siri-blok-
    za-izbore/> [Aleksić: The silent majority in Serbia has woken up,
    the opposition should take part in a wide bloc in the elections]. /
    N1/ (in Serbian). 17 August 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230820123032/https://n1info.rs/vesti/aleksic-probudila-se-
    tiha-vecina-u-srbiji-opozicija-u-sto-siri-blok-za-izbore/> from the
    original on 20 August 2023. Retrieved 21 August 2023.
197. *^ <#cite_ref-197>* Savić, Danilo (19 August 2023). "Kako do pobede
    nad Vučićem: Opozicija mora da napravi dogovor, a dva pitanja su
    ključna" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/kako-do-pobede-nad-vucicem-
    opozicija-mora-da-napravi-dogovor-a-dva-pitanja-su-kljucna/> [How to
    win over Vučić: The opposition must make an agreement, and two
    issues are crucial]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230821120439/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    kako-do-pobede-nad-vucicem-opozicija-mora-da-napravi-dogovor-a-dva-
    pitanja-su-kljucna/> from the original on 21 August 2023. Retrieved
    21 August 2023.
198. *^ <#cite_ref-198>* Latković, Nataša (17 October 2023). "Stranka
    Borisa Tadića pregovara o koaliciji sa Miroslavom Aleksićem"
    <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/saznajemo-stranka-borisa-tadica-
    pregovara-o-koaliciji-sa-miroslavom-aleksicem/> [Boris Tadić's party
    negotiating a coalition with Miroslav Aleksić]. /NOVA portal/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231021125207/
    https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/saznajemo-stranka-borisa-tadica-
    pregovara-o-koaliciji-sa-miroslavom-aleksicem/> from the original on
    21 October 2023. Retrieved 18 October 2023.
199. *^ <#cite_ref-199>* "Ćuta poziva i levu i desnu opoziciju da se
    ujedine: Naša obaveza rušenje Vučića" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/cuta-
    poziva-i-levu-i-desnu-opoziciju-da-se-ujedine-nasa-obaveza-rusenje-
    vucica/> [Ćuta calls on both the left and right opposition to unite:
    Our obligation is to overthrow Vučić]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 9 August
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230821114938/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/cuta-poziva-i-levu-i-desnu-opoziciju-da-se-ujedine-
    nasa-obaveza-rusenje-vucica/> from the original on 21 August 2023.
    Retrieved 21 August 2023.
200. *^ <#cite_ref-200>* Zrnić, Sanja (19 October 2023). "Milica Đurđević
    Stamenkovski: Bez saradnje sa "probriselskom" opozicijom" <https://
    www.vreme.com/vesti/milica-djurdjevic-stamenkovski-bez-saradnje-sa-
    probriselskom-opozicijom/> [Milica Đurđević Stamenkovski: No
    cooperation with the "pro-Brussels" opposition]. /Vreme/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231020180237/
    https://www.vreme.com/vesti/milica-djurdjevic-stamenkovski-bez-
    saradnje-sa-probriselskom-opozicijom/> from the original on 20
    October 2023. Retrieved 22 October 2023.
201. *^ <#cite_ref-201>* "Boško Obradović hoće koaliciju sa Vukom
    Jeremićem: Vidim ih u našem bloku" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    bosko-obradovic-hoce-koaliciju-sa-vukom-jeremicem-vidim-ih-u-nasem-
    bloku/> [Boško Obradović wants a coalition with Vuk Jeremic: I see
    them in our bloc]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 17 August 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230821114938/https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/bosko-obradovic-hoce-koaliciju-sa-vukom-
    jeremicem-vidim-ih-u-nasem-bloku/> from the original on 21 August
    2023. Retrieved 21 August 2023.
202. *^ <#cite_ref-202>* Radovanović, Vojin (6 September 2023).
    ""Beogradskih izbora neće biti ako ne bude 200.000 ljudi na
    ulicama": DSS i POKS spremni da razgovaraju sa Zavetnicima i Dverima
    o izbornoj koaliciji" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/novi-dss-
    poks-zavetnici-dveri-izbori-beogradski-izbori/> ["There will be no
    Belgrade elections if there are not 200,000 people on the streets":
    DSS and POKS ready to talk to the Oathkeepers and Dveri about the
    electoral coalition]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230906112630/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/novi-dss-poks-zavetnici-dveri-izbori-beogradski-izbori/>
    from the original on 6 September 2023. Retrieved 6 September 2023.
203. *^ <#cite_ref-203>* "Jeremić: Potrebno je ujedinjenje svih
    patriotskih snaga na izborima" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    jeremic-potrebno-je-ujedinjenje-svih-patriotskih-snaga-na-izborima/>
    [Jeremić: It is necessary to unite all patriotic forces in the
    elections]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 1 October 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231003114301/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/jeremic-potrebno-je-ujedinjenje-svih-patriotskih-snaga-na-
    izborima/> from the original on 3 October 2023. Retrieved 3 October
    2023.
204. *^ <#cite_ref-:17_204-0>* "Zavetnici i Dveri formirali "Srpski
    državotvorni blok", pozvali koaliciju NADA i druge stranke da im se
    pridruže" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/zavetnici-dveri-nada-
    srpski-drzavotvorni-blok-izbori/> [Oathkeepers and Dveri formed the
    "Serbian State-Building Bloc", they invited the NADA coalition and
    other parties to join them]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 4 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231005014138/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/zavetnici-dveri-nada-srpski-
    drzavotvorni-blok-izbori/> from the original on 5 October 2023.
    Retrieved 5 October 2023.
205. *^ <#cite_ref-205>* "Miloš Jovanović o izbornoj koloni desnice i
    saradnji sa Narodnom strankom" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    milos-jovanovic-novi-dss-izborna-kolona-desnice-narodna-stranka/>
    [Miloš Jovanović on the electoral list of the right and cooperation
    with the People's Party]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 19 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231020062119/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/milos-jovanovic-novi-dss-izborna-kolona-
    desnice-narodna-stranka/> from the original on 20 October 2023.
    Retrieved 22 October 2023.
206. *^ <#cite_ref-206>* Savić, Danilo (19 October 2023). "Miloš
    Jovanović: Razgovaramo o saradnji sa Narodnom strankom, a za Milana
    Radoičića neću reći da je kriminalac" <https://nova.rs/vesti/
    politika/intervju-milos-jovanovic-razgovaramo-o-saradnji-sa-
    narodnom-strankom-a-za-milana-radoicica-necu-reci-da-je-kriminalac/>
    [Miloš Jovanović: We are discussing cooperation with the People's
    Party, and I will not say that Milan Radoičić is a criminal]. /NOVA
    portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231023141423/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/intervju-milos-
    jovanovic-razgovaramo-o-saradnji-sa-narodnom-strankom-a-za-milana-
    radoicica-necu-reci-da-je-kriminalac/> from the original on 23
    October 2023. Retrieved 22 October 2023.
207. *^ <#cite_ref-207>* Štetin Lakić, Jovana (30 October 2023). "Propali
    pregovori državotvorne opozicije, Stamenkovski sprečio dogovor"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/propali-pregovori-drzavotvorne-opozicije-
    stamenkovski-sprecio-dogovor/> [The negotiations of the state-
    forming opposition failed, Stamenkovski prevented the agreement]. /
    N1/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231030111645/https://n1info.rs/vesti/propali-pregovori-
    drzavotvorne-opozicije-stamenkovski-sprecio-dogovor/> from the
    original on 30 October 2023. Retrieved 30 October 2023.
208. *^ <#cite_ref-208>* "Zavetnici potvrdili izlazak u dve kolone,
    Đurđević Stamenkovski kaže – nema mesta intrigama" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/zavetnici-potvrdili-izlazak-u-dve-kolone-djurdjevic-
    stamenkovski-kaze-nema-mesta-intrigama/> [Oathkeepers confirmed the
    departure in two columns, Đurđević Stamenkovski says – there is no
    room for intrigue]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 30 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231030113344/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    zavetnici-potvrdili-izlazak-u-dve-kolone-djurdjevic-stamenkovski-
    kaze-nema-mesta-intrigama/> from the original on 30 October 2023.
    Retrieved 30 October 2023.
209. *^ <#cite_ref-209>* "Šešelj: SRS samosatalno na izbore, Nikolić će
    naneti štetu SNS-u" <https://beta.rs/content/193066-seselj-srs-
    samosatalno-na-izbore-nikolic-ce-naneti-stetu-sns-u> [Šešelj: SRS
    independently in the elections, Nikolić will cause damage to the
    SNS]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 27 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029200529/https://
    beta.rs/content/193066-seselj-srs-samosatalno-na-izbore-nikolic-ce-
    naneti-stetu-sns-u> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved
    29 October 2023.
210. *^ <#cite_ref-210>* "Narodna stranka na predstojeće izbore izlazi
    samostalno" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/
    narodna-stranka-na-predstojece-izbore-izlazi-samostalno/> [The
    People's Party is running independently in the upcoming
    elections]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 31 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231031213250/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/izbori-2023/narodna-stranka-na-predstojece-izbore-
    izlazi-samostalno/> from the original on 31 October 2023. Retrieved
    31 October 2023.
211. *^ <#cite_ref-211>* "DJB: Spremni smo da idemo samostalno na izbore,
    nema ozbiljnih razgovora "državotvorne opozicije"" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/djb-spremni-smo-da-idemo-samostalno-na-izbore-nema-
    ozbiljnih-razgovora-drzavotvorne-opozicije/> [DJB: We are ready to
    go to the elections independently, there are no serious talks of the
    "state-building opposition"]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 27 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029200528/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/djb-spremni-smo-da-idemo-samostalno-na-izbore-nema-
    ozbiljnih-razgovora-drzavotvorne-opozicije/> from the original on 29
    October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
212. *^ <#cite_ref-212>* "Dimitrijević (RIK): Od danas prijem izbornih
    lista, podnose se do 26. novembra" <https://beta.rs/content/193443-
    dimitrijevic-rik-od-danas-prijem-izbornih-lista-podnose-se-do-26-
    novembra> [Dimitrijević (RIK): From today electoral lists will be
    accepted, they must be submitted by 26 November]. /Novinska agencija
    Beta/ (in Serbian). 2 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231102092206/https://beta.rs/content/193443-
    dimitrijevic-rik-od-danas-prijem-izbornih-lista-podnose-se-do-26-
    novembra> from the original on 2 November 2023. Retrieved 2 November
    2023.
213. *^ <#cite_ref-213>* "Utvrđena zbirna izborna lista za parlamentarne
    izbore" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/utvrdjena-zbirna-
    izborna-lista-za-parlamentarne-izbore/> [The collective electoral
    list for the parliamentary elections was published]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 1 December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231202010520/https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/utvrdjena-zbirna-
    izborna-lista-za-parlamentarne-izbore/> from the original on 2
    December 2023. Retrieved 1 December 2023.
214. *^ <#cite_ref-214>* "Ko je sve na listama za poslanike republičke
    skupštine" <https://www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/svet-67379555> [Who is
    on the lists for representatives of the republican assembly]. /BBC
    News/ (in Serbian). 14 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231126112158/https://www.bbc.com/serbian/lat/
    svet-67379555> from the original on 26 November 2023. Retrieved 26
    November 2023.
215. *^ <#cite_ref-215>* "Odbijena lista Pavla Bihalija: Nije ni upisan u
    birački spisak" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/odbijena-lista-
    pavla-bihalija-nije-ni-upisan-u-biracki-spisak/> [The list of Pavle
    Bihali has been rejected: He is not even on the voter's list]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 28 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231128125536/https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/odbijena-
    lista-pavla-bihalija-nije-ni-upisan-u-biracki-spisak/> from the
    original on 28 November 2023. Retrieved 28 November 2023.
216. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_ALBANCI2_216-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-RIK_ALBANCI2_216-1> "RIK odbila da proglasi listu "Dosta!
    Evropski put"" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-odbila-da-
    proglasi-listu-dosta-evropski-put/> [RIK refused to proclaim the
    "Enough! European Way" list]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 28 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231129191101/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-odbila-da-proglasi-listu-dosta-
    evropski-put/> from the original on 29 November 2023. Retrieved 28
    November 2023.
217. *^ <#cite_ref-217>* Luković, Danijela (26 November 2023).
    "MARGINALCI HOĆE U POLITIKU, AKO MOŽE "OBILAZNICOM" Jedan sa
    "vojskom" juriša na Beograd, drugi je preko noći postao Bunjevac"
    <https://www.blic.rs/vesti/politika/marginalci-hoce-u-politiku-rade-
    basta-postao-bunjevac-misa-vacic-jurisa-na-beograd/l2zc5jn>
    [MARGINAL PEOPLE WANT TO GET INTO POLITICS, IF THEY CAN THROUGH A
    "SHORTCUT" One with an "army" storms Belgrade, and the other
    overnight became a Bunjevac]. /Blic/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231128102423/https://www.blic.rs/
    vesti/politika/marginalci-hoce-u-politiku-rade-basta-postao-
    bunjevac-misa-vacic-jurisa-na-beograd/l2zc5jn> from the original on
    28 November 2023. Retrieved 28 November 2023.
218. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_SNS_218-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_SNS_218-1> "RIK proglasio listu Aleksandar Vučić- Srbija ne sme
    da stane" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/rik-
    proglasio-listu-aleksandar-vucic-srbija-ne-sme-da-stane/> [RIK
    announced the list of Aleksandar Vučić – Serbia Must Not Stop]. /
    Danas/ (in Serbian). 3 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231103163344/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-listu-aleksandar-vucic-srbija-ne-
    sme-da-stane/> from the original on 3 November 2023. Retrieved 3
    November 2023.
219. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_SPS_219-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_SPS_219-1> "RIK proglasio izbornu listu Socijalističke partije
    Srbije" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-izbornu-
    listu-socijalisticke-partije-srbije/> [RIK confirms the Socialist
    Party of Serbia electoral list]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 4 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231104104309/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-izbornu-listu-
    socijalisticke-partije-srbije/> from the original on 4 November
    2023. Retrieved 4 November 2023.
220. *^ <#cite_ref-220>* "Proglašena izborna lista "Dr Vojislav Šešelj –
    Srpska radikalna stranka"" <https://insajder.net/prenosimo/
    proglasena-izborna-lista-dr-vojislav-seselj-srpska-radikalna-
    stranka> [Electoral list "Dr Vojislav Šešelj – Serbian Radical
    Party" proclaimed]. /Insajder/ (in Serbian). 4 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231104151214/https://
    insajder.net/prenosimo/proglasena-izborna-lista-dr-vojislav-seselj-
    srpska-radikalna-stranka> from the original on 4 November 2023.
    Retrieved 4 November 2023.
221. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-NO_RIK_221-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    NO_RIK_221-1> "RIK proglasio listu stranke Zavetnici i pokreta
    Dveri" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/rik-proglasio-listu-stranke-
    zavetnici-i-pokreta-dveri/> [RIK proclaimed the electoral list of
    party Oathkeepers and movement Dveri]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 5
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231105195308/
    https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/rik-proglasio-listu-stranke-
    zavetnici-i-pokreta-dveri/> from the original on 5 November 2023.
    Retrieved 5 November 2023.
222. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_NADA_222-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_NADA_222-1> "RIK proglasio listu "Dr Miloš Jovanović – NADA za
    Srbiju"" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/rik-proglasio-listu-dr-
    milos-jovanovic-nada-za-srbiju/> [RIK proclaimed the "Dr Miloš
    Jovanović – NADA for Serbia" electoral list]. /NOVA portal/ (in
    Serbian). 7 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231107194935/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/rik-proglasio-listu-
    dr-milos-jovanovic-nada-za-srbiju/> from the original on 7 November
    2023. Retrieved 7 November 2023.
223. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_VMSZ_223-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_VMSZ_223-1> Čolić, Leposava (8 November 2023). "Potvrđena lista
    SVM" <https://fonet.rs/izbori-2023/36388382/potvrdjena-lista-
    svm.html> [SVM electoral list confirmed]. /FoNet portal/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231108221041/
    https://fonet.rs/izbori-2023/36388382/potvrdjena-lista-svm.html>
    from the original on 8 November 2023. Retrieved 8 November 2023.
224. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_SPN_224-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_SPN_224-1> "RIK proglasio izbornu listu "Srbija protiv nasilja""
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-izbornu-listu-
    srbija-protiv-nasilja/> [RIK proclaimed the "Serbia Against
    Violence" electoral list]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 9 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231109220713/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-izbornu-listu-srbija-
    protiv-nasilja/> from the original on 9 November 2023. Retrieved 9
    November 2023.
225. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_UZP_225-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_UZP_225-1> "RIK proglasio izbornu listu Usamea Zukorlića i
    Tomislava Žigmanova, sa statusom nacionalne manjine" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-izbornu-listu-usame-
    zukorlica-i-tomislava-zigmanova-sa-statusom-nacionalne-manjine/>
    [RIK proclaimed the electoral list of Usame Zukorlić and Tomislav
    Žigmanov, with the status of national minority]. /N1/ (in Serbian).
    10 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231110172147/https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-
    izbornu-listu-usame-zukorlica-i-tomislava-zigmanova-sa-statusom-
    nacionalne-manjine/> from the original on 10 November 2023.
    Retrieved 10 November 2023.
226. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_SDAS_226-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_SDAS_226-1> "RIK proglasio izbornu listu "SDA Sandžaka Dr.
    Sulejman Ugljanin"" <https://www.b92.net/info/izbori2023/
    parlamentarni.php?nav_id=2434226> [RIK pcolaimed the electoral list
    "SDA of Sandžak Dr Sulejman Ugljanin"]. /B92/ (in Serbian). 15
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115212458/
    https://www.b92.net/info/izbori2023/parlamentarni.php?
    nav_id=2434226> from the original on 15 November 2023. Retrieved 15
    November 2023.
227. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_KZMT_227-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_KZMT_227-1> "RIK: Proglašena izborna lista "Zajedno za budućnost
    i razvoj – koalicija za mir i toleranciju"" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasena-izborna-lista-zajedno-za-buducnost-
    i-razvoj-koalicija-za-mir-i-toleranciju/> [RIK: "Together for the
    Future and Development – Coalition for Peace and Tolerance"
    electoral list announced]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 18 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231118233131/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasena-izborna-lista-zajedno-za-
    buducnost-i-razvoj-koalicija-za-mir-i-toleranciju/> from the
    original on 18 November 2023. Retrieved 18 November 2023.
228. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_NARODNA_228-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-RIK_NARODNA_228-1> "RIK proglasio izbornu listu Narodne
    stranke" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-izbornu-
    listu-narodne-stranke/> [RIK proclaimed the electoral list of the
    People's Party]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 20 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231120215347/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-izbornu-listu-narodne-stranke/> from the
    original on 20 November 2023. Retrieved 20 November 2023.
229. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_DJS_229-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_DJS_229-1> "RIK proglasio izbornu listu koalicije DJB – SDS –
    Otete bebe" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/60976/rik-
    proglasio-izbornu-listu-koalicije-djb-sds-otete-bebe/vest> [RIK
    proclaimed the electoral list of the DJB–SDS–Stolen Babies
    coalition]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 23 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231219144832/https://www.tanjug.rs/
    izbori-2023/vesti/60976/rik-proglasio-izbornu-listu-koalicije-djb-
    sds-otete-bebe/vest> from the original on 19 December 2023.
    Retrieved 23 November 2023.
230. *^ <#cite_ref-PIK_PVD_230-0>* "Proglašena lista "Politička borba
    Albanaca se nastavlja – Šaip Kamberi"" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/izbori-2023/proglasena-lista-politicka-borba-albanaca-se-
    nastavlja-saip-kamberi/> [The list "The Political Battle of the
    Albanians Continues – Šaip Kamberi" has been proclaimed]. /Danas/
    (in Serbian). 26 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231126160912/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/
    proglasena-lista-politicka-borba-albanaca-se-nastavlja-saip-kamberi/
    > from the original on 26 November 2023. Retrieved 26 November 2023.
231. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_27Nov_231-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_27Nov_231-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_27Nov_231-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-RIK_27Nov_231-3> "RIK: Proglašene još dve izborne liste,
    usvojeno vreme glasanja na biračkim mestima u inostranstvu"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-proglasene-jos-dve-izborne-
    liste-usvojeno-vreme-glasanja-na-birackim-mestima-u-inostranstvu/
    >. /N1/ (in Serbian). 27 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231128123639/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/rik-proglasene-jos-dve-izborne-liste-usvojeno-vreme-
    glasanja-na-birackim-mestima-u-inostranstvu/> from the original on
    28 November 2023. Retrieved 27 November 2023.
232. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_RSLDP_232-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_RSLDP_232-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_RSLDP_232-2> "RIK proglasio
    liste Ruske stranke i Čedomira Jovanovića" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-liste-ruske-stranke-i-cedomira-jovanovica/
    > [RIK proclaimed the lists of the Russian Party and Čedomir
    Jovanović]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 28 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231129191103/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/rik-proglasio-liste-ruske-stranke-i-cedomira-jovanovica/
    > from the original on 29 November 2023. Retrieved 28 November 2023.
233. *^ <#cite_ref-233>* "Ko je sve na listi Čedomira Jovanovića za
    parlamentarne izbore?" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    izbori-2023/ko-je-sve-na-listi-cedomira-jovanovica-za-parlamentarne-
    izbore/> [Who is on the list of Čedomir Jovanović for the
    parliamentary elections?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 28 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231204200855/https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/ko-je-sve-na-listi-cedomira-
    jovanovica-za-parlamentarne-izbore/> from the original on 4 December
    2023. Retrieved 6 December 2023.
234. *^ <#cite_ref-235>* Zovko, Hrvoje (21 November 2023). "Vučićeva
    kritična, 12. godina vlasti: Srbija za mjesec dana izlazi na
    izvanredne izbore" <https://www.vecernji.hr/vijesti/vuciceva-
    kriticna-12-godina-vlasti-srbija-za-mjesec-dana-izlazi-na-
    izvanredne-izbore-1725535>. /Večernji list/ (in Croatian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231121214608/https://www.vecernji.hr/
    vijesti/vuciceva-kriticna-12-godina-vlasti-srbija-za-mjesec-dana-
    izlazi-na-izvanredne-izbore-1725535> from the original on 21
    November 2023. Retrieved 21 November 2023.
235. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:42_236-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    42_236-1> Savić, Danilo (27 October 2023). "Čeka nas najprljavija
    kampanja ikad: Neće biti pošteđeni ni opozicija, ni aktivisti, ni
    njihove porodice" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/ceka-nas-
    najprljavija-kampanja-ikad-nece-biti-postedjeni-ni-opozicija-ni-
    aktivisti-ni-njihove-porodice/> [The dirtiest campaign ever awaits
    us: Neither the opposition, nor the activists, nor their families
    will be spared]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231029150116/https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    ceka-nas-najprljavija-kampanja-ikad-nece-biti-postedjeni-ni-
    opozicija-ni-aktivisti-ni-njihove-porodice/> from the original on 29
    October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
236. *^ <#cite_ref-237>* "Stojanović za Insajder: Tenzije se ne smanjuju,
    političko nasilje biće prisutno do kraja kampanje" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/stojanovic-za-insajder-
    tenzije-se-ne-smanjuju-politicko-nasilje-bice-prisutno-do-kraja-
    kampanje/> [Stojanović for Insider: Tensions are not decreasing,
    political violence will be present until the end of the campaign]. /
    Danas/ (in Serbian). 13 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231114215036/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/izbori-2023/stojanovic-za-insajder-tenzije-se-ne-smanjuju-
    politicko-nasilje-bice-prisutno-do-kraja-kampanje/> from the
    original on 14 November 2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
237. *^ <#cite_ref-238>* "Stojanović: Predstojeći izbori neizvesniji nego
    prethodni, posebno kada je reč o Beogradu" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/izbori-2023/boban-stojanovic-izbori/> [Stojanović:
    The upcoming elections are more uncertain than the previous ones,
    especially when it comes to Belgrade]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 25
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231125154852/
    https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/boban-stojanovic-
    izbori/> from the original on 25 November 2023. Retrieved 25
    November 2023.
238. *^ <#cite_ref-239>* "Savet Evrope: U Srbiji veoma polarizovana
    kampanja sa nezabeleženim nivoom zastrašivanja" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/savet-evrope-u-srbiji-veoma-
    polarizovana-kampanja-sa-nezabelezenim-nivoom-zastrasivanja/>
    [Council of Europe: In Serbia, a very polarised campaign with an
    unprecedented level of intimidation]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 27
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231127181812/
    https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/savet-evrope-u-
    srbiji-veoma-polarizovana-kampanja-sa-nezabelezenim-nivoom-
    zastrasivanja/> from the original on 27 November 2023. Retrieved 27
    November 2023.
239. *^ <#cite_ref-240>* "Nedeljkov: Možemo da očekujemo prljavu
    kampanju, već vidimo targetiranje protivnika, medija..." <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/nedeljkov-mozemo-da-ocekujemo-prljavu-
    kampanju-vec-vidimo-targetiranje-protivnika-medija/> [Nedeljkov: We
    can expect a dirty campaign, we are already seeing the targeting of
    opponents, the media...]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 1 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231101191524/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/nedeljkov-mozemo-da-ocekujemo-prljavu-
    kampanju-vec-vidimo-targetiranje-protivnika-medija/> from the
    original on 1 November 2023. Retrieved 2 November 2023.
240. *^ <#cite_ref-241>* "CRTA: Politički pritisci na građane su
    svakodnevni, a tokom izbora se pojačavaju" <https://beta.rs/content/
    193563-crta-politicki-pritisci-na-gradane-su-svakodnevni-a-tokom-
    izbora-se-pojacavaju> [CRTA: Political pressures on citizens are
    daily, and during elections they intensify]. /Novinska agencija
    Beta/ (in Serbian). 4 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231106140110/https://beta.rs/content/193563-
    crta-politicki-pritisci-na-gradane-su-svakodnevni-a-tokom-izbora-se-
    pojacavaju> from the original on 6 November 2023. Retrieved 6
    November 2023.
241. *^ <#cite_ref-242>* "CRTA: Neravnopravnost, sumnje i pretnje
    obeležile prvih 20 dana kampanje" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/crta-neravnopravnost-sumnje-i-pretnje-obelezile-
    prvih-20-dana-kampanje/> [CRTA: Inequality, doubts and threats
    marked the first 20 days of the campaign]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 23
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231123215137/
    https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/crta-neravnopravnost-sumnje-i-
    pretnje-obelezile-prvih-20-dana-kampanje/> from the original on 23
    November 2023. Retrieved 23 November 2023.
242. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:43_243-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    43_243-1> Milosavljević, Ivana; Ćurčić, Teodora; Kostić, Vladimir
    (29 November 2023). "CINS u kol centru SNS-a: Agencija za hostese,
    kupovina glasova i milioni u kešu" <https://www.cins.rs/cins-u-kol-
    centru-sns-a-agencija-za-hostese-kupovina-glasova-i-milioni-u-kesu/>
    [CINS in the SNS call centre: An agency for hostesses, buying
    voters, and millions in pockets]. /Centar za istraživačko
    novinarstvo Srbije/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231129095736/https://www.cins.rs/cins-u-kol-centru-sns-a-
    agencija-za-hostese-kupovina-glasova-i-milioni-u-kesu/> from the
    original on 29 November 2023. Retrieved 29 November 2023.
243. *^ <#cite_ref-244>* Ranković, Dunja (30 October 2023). "Kampanja "I
    ti se pitaš": Mladi koji prvi put izlaze na glasanje organizuju
    probne izbore" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/kampanja-i-ti-se-pitas-
    mladi-koji-prvi-put-izlaze-na-glasanje-organizuju-probne-izbore/>
    ["It's Up To You Too" campaign: Young people who go out to vote for
    the first time organise trial elections]. /N1/ (in Serbian).
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231031012011/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/kampanja-i-ti-se-pitas-mladi-koji-prvi-put-izlaze-
    na-glasanje-organizuju-probne-izbore/> from the original on 31
    October 2023. Retrieved 31 October 2023.
244. *^ <#cite_ref-245>* Lukač, Davor (2 November 2023). "Kampanja "Dokle
    više"" <http://fonet.rs/drustvo/36385791/kampanja-dokle-vise.html>
    ["How Much More" Campaign]. /FoNet portal/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231103211132/https://fonet.rs/
    drustvo/36385791/kampanja-dokle-vise.html> from the original on 3
    November 2023. Retrieved 3 November 2023.
245. *^ <#cite_ref-246>* "Grupa intelektualaca predstavila ProGlas,
    pozivaju građane da se ohrabre i menjaju Srbiju" <https://beta.rs/
    content/193754-grupa-intelektualaca-predstavila-proglas-pozivaju-
    gradane-da-se-ohrabre-i-menjaju-srbiju> [A group of intellectuals
    presented ProGlas, calling on citizens to be encouraged and change
    Serbia]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 7 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231107130733/https://
    beta.rs/content/193754-grupa-intelektualaca-predstavila-proglas-
    pozivaju-gradane-da-se-ohrabre-i-menjaju-srbiju> from the original
    on 7 November 2023. Retrieved 7 November 2023.
246. *^ <#cite_ref-247>* ""ProGlas" potpisalo više od 100.000 ljudi"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/proglas-potpisalo-vise-
    od-100-000-ljudi/> ["ProGlas" has been signed by more than 100,000
    people]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 15 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231115121800/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/proglas-potpisalo-vise-od-100-000-ljudi/> from the
    original on 15 November 2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
247. *^ <#cite_ref-248>* Petrović, Ivica (16 December 2023). "Vučić je
    svuda, ali SNS ipak može da izgubi izbore" <https://www.dw.com/sr/
    vu%C4%8Di%C4%87-je-svuda-ali-sns-ipak-mo%C5%BEe-da-izgubi-izbore/
    a-67742691> [Vučić is everywhere, but SNS can still lose the
    elections]. /Deutsche Welle/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231216154604/https://www.dw.com/sr/
    vu%C4%8Di%C4%87-je-svuda-ali-sns-ipak-mo%C5%BEe-da-izgubi-izbore/
    a-67742691> from the original on 16 December 2023. Retrieved 16
    December 2023.
248. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:44_249-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    44_249-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:44_249-2> Reves, Aleksandra (29
    November 2023). "Eksperti u sadržaju bez sadržaja: Kako se
    političari (ne)obraćaju mladima u kampanji?" <https://www.021.rs/
    story/Info/Srbija/359821/Eksperti-u-sadrzaju-bez-sadrzaja-Kako-se-
    politicari-neobracaju-mladima-u-kampanji.html> [Content experts
    without content: How do politicians (not) address young people in
    the campaign?]. /021.rs/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231129181454/https://www.021.rs/story/Info/
    Srbija/359821/Eksperti-u-sadrzaju-bez-sadrzaja-Kako-se-politicari-
    neobracaju-mladima-u-kampanji.html> from the original on 29 November
    2023. Retrieved 30 November 2023.
249. *^ <#cite_ref-250>* "Koji je cilj poruka političara na TikToku:
    Privlačenje novih birača ili guranje mladih u apstinenciju?"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/koji-je-cilj-poruka-politicara-
    na-tiktoku-privlacenje-novih-biraca-ili-guranje-mladih-u-
    apstinenciju/> [What is the goal of politicians' messages on TikTok:
    Attracting new voters or pushing young people into abstinence?]. /
    N1/ (in Serbian). 1 December 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231203114945/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/koji-je-cilj-poruka-politicara-na-tiktoku-privlacenje-
    novih-biraca-ili-guranje-mladih-u-apstinenciju/> from the original
    on 3 December 2023. Retrieved 1 December 2023.
250. *^ <#cite_ref-251>* "TikTok kao poligon za promociju: Gosti Euronews
    centra o tome šta političari rade na mrežama i kakav je efekat na
    birače" <https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/105850/tiktok-kao-
    poligon-za-promociju-gosti-euronews-centra-o-tome-sta-politicari-
    rade-na-mrezama-i-kakav-je-efekat-na-birace/vest> [TikTok as a
    training ground for promotion: Euronews center guests on what
    politicians are doing on the networks and what effect it has on
    voters]. /Euronews/ (in Serbian). 22 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231203114944/https://www.euronews.rs/
    srbija/politika/105850/tiktok-kao-poligon-za-promociju-gosti-
    euronews-centra-o-tome-sta-politicari-rade-na-mrezama-i-kakav-je-
    efekat-na-birace/vest> from the original on 3 December 2023.
    Retrieved 30 November 2023.
251. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-VMSZ_slogan_252-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-VMSZ_slogan_252-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-VMSZ_slogan_252-2>
    "Savez vojvođanskih Mađara predao listu za parlamentarne izbore"
    <https://insajder.net/prenosimo/savez-vojvodanskih-madara-predao-
    listu-za-parlamentrane-izbore> [Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians
    submitted its electoral list for parliamentary elections]. /
    Insajder/ (in Serbian). 7 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231107211239/https://insajder.net/prenosimo/
    savez-vojvodanskih-madara-predao-listu-za-parlamentrane-izbore> from
    the original on 7 November 2023. Retrieved 7 November 2023.
252. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:32_253-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    32_253-1> "Koalicija Nada predala izbornu listu RIK-u s porukom da
    stvari moraju da se menjaju" <https://beta.rs/content/193656-
    koalicija-nada-predala-izbornu-listu-rik-u-s-porukom-da-stvari-
    moraju-da-se-manjaju> [Coalition NADA presented its list to RIK with
    a message that things must change]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in
    Serbian). 6 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231106092311/https://beta.rs/content/193656-koalicija-nada-
    predala-izbornu-listu-rik-u-s-porukom-da-stvari-moraju-da-se-
    manjaju> from the original on 6 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November
    2023.
253. *^ <#cite_ref-254>* "Vuk Jeremić potpisao listu Narodne stranke
    "Siguran izbor – ozbiljni ljudi"" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/izbori-2023/vuk-jeremic-potpisao-listu-narodne-stranke-
    siguran-izbor-ozbiljni-ljudi/> [Vuk Jeremić has signed the People's
    Party "Safe choice – serious people" electoral list]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). 6 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231106145717/https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/vuk-
    jeremic-potpisao-listu-narodne-stranke-siguran-izbor-ozbiljni-ljudi/
    > from the original on 6 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November 2023.
254. *^ <#cite_ref-255>* ""Srbija je zemlja koju danas moramo da
    menjamo": Objavljen spot liste Srbija protiv nasilja" <https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/srbija-je-zemlja-koju-danas-moramo-da-
    menjamo-objavljen-spot-liste-srbija-protiv-nasilja/> ["Serbia is a
    country that we have to change today": Serbia Against Violence spot
    list published]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 8 December 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231208104741/https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/srbija-je-zemlja-koju-danas-moramo-da-
    menjamo-objavljen-spot-liste-srbija-protiv-nasilja/> from the
    original on 8 December 2023. Retrieved 8 December 2023.
255. *^ <#cite_ref-256>* "Opozicija predala potpise za BG izbore: Promena
    je počela!" <https://direktno.rs/izbori-2023/498304/opozicija-
    beogradski-izbori.html> [The opposition submitted its signatures for
    Belgrade elections: Change has begun!]. /Direktno/ (in Serbian). 12
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231209164559/
    https://direktno.rs/izbori-2023/498304/opozicija-beogradski-
    izbori.html> from the original on 9 December 2023. Retrieved 9
    December 2023.
256. *^ <#cite_ref-257>* "RIK proglasio izbornu listu "Dr Vojislav Šešelj
    – Srpska radikalna stranka"" <https://www.021.rs/story/Info/Srbija/
    357487/RIK-proglasio-izbornu-listu-Dr-Vojislav-Seselj-Srpska-
    radikalna-stranka.html> [RIK proclaimed the "Dr Vojislav Šešelj –
    Serbian Radical Party" electoral list]. /021.rs/ (in Serbian). 4
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231105153705/
    https://www.021.rs/story/Info/Srbija/357487/RIK-proglasio-izbornu-
    listu-Dr-Vojislav-Seselj-Srpska-radikalna-stranka.html> from the
    original on 5 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November 2023.
257. *^ <#cite_ref-258>* Stojković, Anđelija (22 November 2023). "DJB i
    SDS predali listu" <https://fonet.rs/izbori-2023/36395010/djb-i-sds-
    predali-listu.html> [DJB and SDS submitted their list]. /FoNet
    portal/ (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231123220506/https://fonet.rs/izbori-2023/36395010/djb-i-sds-
    predali-listu.html> from the original on 23 November 2023. Retrieved
    23 November 2023.
258. *^ <#cite_ref-259>* ""Srbija ne sme da stane" – SNS uzeo za slogan
    rečenicu Zorana Đinđića" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/srbija-ne-sme-da-
    stane-sns-uzeo-za-slogan-recenicu-zorana-djindjica/> ["Serbia must
    not stop" – SNS took Zoran Đinđić's sentence as a slogan]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 27 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231029014448/https://n1info.rs/vesti/srbija-ne-sme-da-stane-sns-
    uzeo-za-slogan-recenicu-zorana-djindjica/> from the original on 29
    October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
259. *^ <#cite_ref-260>* "Vučić: Snaga je u ljudima" <https://
    www.b92.net/info/izbori2023/vesti.php?nav_id=2440947> [Vučić: The
    power is in the people]. /B92.net/ (in Serbian). 27 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231127190113/https://
    www.b92.net/info/izbori2023/vesti.php?nav_id=2440947> from the
    original on 27 November 2023. Retrieved 27 November 2023.
260. *^ <#cite_ref-261>* "Odlučeno lista socijalista zvaće se "Ivica
    Dačić premijer"" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/
    odluceno-lista-socijalista-zvace-se-ivica-dacic-premijer/> [It has
    been decided that the list of Socialists will be called "Ivica Dačić
    Prime Minister"]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 30 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231030200303/https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/izbori-2023/odluceno-lista-socijalista-zvace-se-
    ivica-dacic-premijer/> from the original on 30 October 2023.
    Retrieved 30 October 2023.
261. *^ <#cite_ref-262>* Jelovac, Jelena (14 September 2023). "Pozovite
    nekog normalnog u studio. Hoćeš da mi zavariš šamarčinu?: Prštalo na
    RTS, žestok okršaj Lutovca i Jovanova" <https://nova.rs/vesti/
    politika/pozovite-nekog-normalnog-u-studio-hoces-da-mi-zavaris-
    samarcinu-prstalo-na-rts-zestok-okrsaj-lutovca-i-jovanova/> [Invite
    someone normal to the studio. Do you want to slap me?: It sprung on
    RTS, a fierce clash between Lutovac and Jovanov]. /NOVA portal/ (in
    Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029135138/
    https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/pozovite-nekog-normalnog-u-studio-
    hoces-da-mi-zavaris-samarcinu-prstalo-na-rts-zestok-okrsaj-lutovca-
    i-jovanova/> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 29
    October 2023.
262. *^ <#cite_ref-263>* "Orlić: Ljudi ne odlučuju za koga će glasati
    prema datumu izbora; Jeremić: Možemo na listu sa onima koji su
    protiv francusko-nemačkog plana" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/
    politika/5284971/orlic-ljudi-ne-odlucuju-za-koga-ce-glasati-prema-
    datumu-izbora-jeremic-mozemo-na-listu-sa-onima-koji-su-protiv-
    francusko-nemackog-plana.html> [Orlić: People do not decide who they
    will vote for according to the election date; Jeremić: We can be on
    the list with those who are against the Franco-German plan]. /Radio
    Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 5 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231116220215/https://www.rts.rs/lat/
    vesti/politika/5284971/orlic-ljudi-ne-odlucuju-za-koga-ce-glasati-
    prema-datumu-izbora-jeremic-mozemo-na-listu-sa-onima-koji-su-protiv-
    francusko-nemackog-plana.html> from the original on 16 November
    2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
263. *^ <#cite_ref-264>* "Šta građani dobijaju vanrednim izborima"
    <https://www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5287393/sta-gradjani-dobijaju-
    vanrednim-izborima-.html> [What do citizens get from snap
    elections?]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 10 October
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029135139/https://
    www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5287393/sta-gradjani-dobijaju-vanrednim-
    izborima-.html> from the original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 29
    October 2023.
264. *^ <#cite_ref-265>* "Može li Srbija da sačuva spoljno-političku
    neutralnost i po koju cenu" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5295786/
    moze-li-srbija-da-sacuva-spoljno-politicku-neutralnost-i-po-koju-
    cenu.html> [Can Serbia preserve foreign political neutrality and at
    what cost?]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 24 October
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029135137/https://
    www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5295786/moze-li-srbija-da-sacuva-spoljno-
    politicku-neutralnost-i-po-koju-cenu.html> from the original on 29
    October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
265. *^ <#cite_ref-266>* "Milica Đurđević Stamenkovski i Snežana Paunović
    o predstojećim izborima i nacionalnom okupljanju" <https://
    www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/politika/5297928/milica-djurdjevic-
    stamenkovski-snezana-paunovic-rts-izbori-nacionalno-okupljanje-
    dijalog.html> [Milica Đurđević Stamenkovski and Snežana Paunović on
    the upcoming elections and the national gathering]. /Radio
    Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 26 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231029135138/https://www.rts.rs/lat/
    vesti/politika/5297928/milica-djurdjevic-stamenkovski-snezana-
    paunovic-rts-izbori-nacionalno-okupljanje-dijalog.html> from the
    original on 29 October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
266. *^ <#cite_ref-267>* "Kojim merama Srbija može da unapredi životni
    standard građana" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5300116/kojim-
    merama-srbija-moze-da-unapredi-zivotni-standard-gradjana-.html>
    [With what measures can Serbia improve the standard of living of its
    citizens]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 31 October
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231218163715/https://
    www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5300116/kojim-merama-srbija-moze-da-unapredi-
    zivotni-standard-gradjana-.html> from the original on 18 December
    2023. Retrieved 30 October 2023.
267. *^ <#cite_ref-268>* "Insajder Debata: (Pred)Izborna slagalica"
    <https://insajder.net/teme/insajder-debata-pred-izborna-slagalica>
    [Insajder debate: (Pre)-election jigsaw puzzle]. /Insajder/ (in
    Serbian). 2 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231106141940/https://insajder.net/teme/insajder-debata-pred-
    izborna-slagalica> from the original on 6 November 2023. Retrieved 6
    November 2023.
268. *^ <#cite_ref-269>* "Insajder Debata: Nasilje – ko treba da kaže sad
    je dosta?" <https://insajder.net/emisije/debata/debatas03/insajder-
    debata-nasilje-ko-treba-da-kaze-sad-je-dosta> [Insajder debate:
    Violence – Who is supposed to say now is enough?]. /Insajder/ (in
    Serbian). 9 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231111113301/https://insajder.net/emisije/debata/debatas03/
    insajder-debata-nasilje-ko-treba-da-kaze-sad-je-dosta> from the
    original on 11 November 2023. Retrieved 11 November 2023.
269. *^ <#cite_ref-270>* "Signali – 10.11.2023" <https://media.rtv.rs/
    sr_lat/signali/87270> [Signals – 10.11.2023.]. /Radio Television of
    Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 10 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231124111358/https://media.rtv.rs/sr_lat/
    signali/87270> from the original on 24 November 2023. Retrieved 24
    November 2023.
270. *^ <#cite_ref-271>* "Demografija, kako preokrenuti negativne
    trendove" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5308970/demografija-kako-
    preokrenuti-negativne-trendove.html> [Demography, how to reverse
    negative trends]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 14
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231113124210/
    https://www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5308970/demografija-kako-preokrenuti-
    negativne-trendove.html> from the original on 13 November 2023.
    Retrieved 13 November 2023.
271. *^ <#cite_ref-272>* "Elvira Kovač (SVM) i Usame Zukorlić (Stranka
    pravde i pomirenja) o izbornim programima i planovima" <https://
    www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5311159/elvira-kovac-svm-i-usame-
    zukorlic-stranka-pravde-i-pomirenja-o-izbornim-programima-i-
    planovima.html> [Elvira Kovač (SVM) and Usame Zukorlić (Justice and
    Reconciliation Party) on election programmes and plans]. /Radio
    Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 16 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231116220215/https://www.rts.rs/lat/
    vesti/izbori-2023/5311159/elvira-kovac-svm-i-usame-zukorlic-stranka-
    pravde-i-pomirenja-o-izbornim-programima-i-planovima.html> from the
    original on 16 November 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
272. *^ <#cite_ref-273>* "Insajder Debata: Viza za svet" <https://
    insajder.net/teme/insajder-debata-viza-za-svet-video> [Insajder
    debate: Visa for the world]. /Insajder/ (in Serbian). 16 November
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231116225214/https://
    insajder.net/teme/insajder-debata-viza-za-svet-video> from the
    original on 16 November 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
273. *^ <#cite_ref-274>* "Signali – 17.11.2023" <https://media.rtv.rs/
    sr_lat/signali/87462> [Signals – 17.11.2023.]. /Radio Television of
    Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 17 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231124111359/https://media.rtv.rs/sr_lat/
    signali/87462> from the original on 24 November 2023. Retrieved 24
    November 2023.
274. *^ <#cite_ref-275>* Jelovac, Jelena (20 November 2023). ""Ti,
    Kristofer Hil i tvoja mačkica Aleksandar Vučić, stručnjaci za
    raseljavanje": Ćuta u klinču sa Vojislavom Šešeljem na Hepiju"
    <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/ti-kristofer-hil-i-tvoja-mackica-
    aleksandar-vucic-strucnjaci-za-raseljavanje-cuta-u-klincu-sa-
    vojislavom-seseljem-na-hepiju/> ["You, Christopher Hill and your
    kitty Aleksandar Vučić, displacement experts": Silent in the clinch
    with Vojislav Šešelj on Happy]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231120130031/https://nova.rs/vesti/
    politika/ti-kristofer-hil-i-tvoja-mackica-aleksandar-vucic-
    strucnjaci-za-raseljavanje-cuta-u-klincu-sa-vojislavom-seseljem-na-
    hepiju/> from the original on 20 November 2023. Retrieved 20
    November 2023.
275. *^ <#cite_ref-276>* "Kako do zdrave životne sredine i efikasne
    poljoprivrede" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5313392/kako-do-
    zdrave-zivotne-sredine-i-efikasne-poljoprivrede-.html> [How to
    achieve a healthy environment and efficient agriculture]. /Radio
    Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 21 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231120184006/https://www.rts.rs/lat/
    tv/rts1/5313392/kako-do-zdrave-zivotne-sredine-i-efikasne-
    poljoprivrede-.html> from the original on 20 November 2023.
    Retrieved 20 November 2023.
276. *^ <#cite_ref-277>* "Jeremić (NS): Odbaciti francusko-nemački plan u
    celosti; Milićević (SPS): Kroz dijalog do pravičnog rešenja"
    <https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5315372/jeremic-ns-
    odbaciti-francusko-nemacki-plan-u-celosti-milicevic-sps-kroz-
    dijalog-do-pravicnog-resenja-.html> [Jeremić (NS): Reject the
    Franco-German plan in its entirety; Milićević (SPS): Through
    dialogue to a fair solution]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in
    Serbian). 23 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231123215920/https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5315372/
    jeremic-ns-odbaciti-francusko-nemacki-plan-u-celosti-milicevic-sps-
    kroz-dijalog-do-pravicnog-resenja-.html> from the original on 23
    November 2023. Retrieved 23 November 2023.
277. *^ <#cite_ref-278>* "Insajder Debata – Ima li obrazovanja u izbornoj
    kampanji?" <https://insajder.net/emisije/debata/debatas03/insajder-
    debata-ima-li-obrazovanja-u-izbornoj-kampanji> [Insajder debate: Is
    there education in the election campaign?]. /Insajder/ (in Serbian).
    24 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231124200348/https://insajder.net/emisije/debata/debatas03/
    insajder-debata-ima-li-obrazovanja-u-izbornoj-kampanji> from the
    original on 24 November 2023. Retrieved 24 November 2023.
278. *^ <#cite_ref-279>* "Izborne debate na N1: Sredom u 21h" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izborne-debate-na-n1-sredom-u-21h/> [Election
    debates on N1: Wednesdays at 9 p.m]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 28 November
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231129191100/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izborne-debate-na-n1-sredom-u-21h/> from the
    original on 29 November 2023. Retrieved 28 November 2023.
279. *^ <#cite_ref-280>* "Raguš: Crvena linija – nema tzv. Kosova u UN;
    Tadić: Obnoviti pregovarački proces u SB UN" <https://www.rts.rs/
    lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5319418/politicki-dijalog-marina-ragus-boris-
    tadic.html> [Raguš: The red line – there should be no so-called
    Kosovo in the UN; Tadić: Renew the negotiation process in the UN
    Security Council]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 30
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231203114944/
    https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5319418/politicki-dijalog-
    marina-ragus-boris-tadic.html> from the original on 3 December 2023.
    Retrieved 1 December 2023.
280. *^ <#cite_ref-281>* "Insajder Debata – Od "Ko to tamo peva" do
    zdravstva dostupnog svima" <https://insajder.net/emisije/debata/
    debatas03/insajder-debata-od-ko-to-tamo-peva-do-zdravstva-dostupnog-
    svima> [Insajder debate: From "Who's singing there" to healthcare
    accessible to everyone]. /Insajder/ (in Serbian). 30 November 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231203114944/https://
    insajder.net/emisije/debata/debatas03/insajder-debata-od-ko-to-tamo-
    peva-do-zdravstva-dostupnog-svima> from the original on 3 December
    2023. Retrieved 1 December 2023.
281. *^ <#cite_ref-282>* "Spoljna politika Srbije, usklađivanje sa EU i
    sopstveni interesi" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5321677/spoljna-
    politika-srbije-uskladjivanje-sa-eu-i-sopstveni-interesi-.html>
    [Serbia's foreign policy, alignment with the EU and its own
    interests]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 5 December
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231204141033/https://
    www.rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5321677/spoljna-politika-srbije-
    uskladjivanje-sa-eu-i-sopstveni-interesi-.html> from the original on
    4 December 2023. Retrieved 4 December 2023.
282. *^ <#cite_ref-283>* "Kako Srbija da odbrani svoje interese u vezi
    Kosova i Metohije" <https://rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5322697/kako-srbija-
    da-odbrani-svoje-interese-u-vezi-kosova-i-metohije.html> [How can
    Serbia defend its interests regarding Kosovo and Metohija]. /Radio
    Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 7 December 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231208160928/https://rts.rs/lat/tv/
    rts1/5322697/kako-srbija-da-odbrani-svoje-interese-u-vezi-kosova-i-
    metohije.html> from the original on 8 December 2023. Retrieved 7
    December 2023.
283. *^ <#cite_ref-284>* "Dačić: Želimo da nastavimo saradnju sa SNS-om;
    Jovanović (NADA) za tromesečnu tehničku saradnju sa opoziocionim
    listama" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5323813/dacic-
    zelimo-da-nastavimo-saradnju-sa-sns-om-jovanovic-nada-za-tromesecnu-
    tehnicku-saradnju-sa-opoziocionim-listama.html> [Dacic: We want to
    continue cooperation with SNS; Jovanović (NADA) for three-month
    technical cooperation with opposition lists]. /Radio Television of
    Serbia/ (in Serbian). 7 December 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231207195622/https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/
    izbori-2023/5323813/dacic-zelimo-da-nastavimo-saradnju-sa-sns-om-
    jovanovic-nada-za-tromesecnu-tehnicku-saradnju-sa-opoziocionim-
    listama.html> from the original on 7 December 2023. Retrieved 7
    December 2023.
284. *^ <#cite_ref-285>* "Insajder Debata – Ekonomski tigar iz profila"
    <https://insajder.net/teme/insajder-debata-ekonomski-tigar-iz-
    profila-video> [Insajder debate: Economic tiger from the profile]. /
    Insajder/ (in Serbian). 7 December 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231208133909/https://insajder.net/teme/
    insajder-debata-ekonomski-tigar-iz-profila-video> from the original
    on 8 December 2023. Retrieved 7 December 2023.
285. *^ <#cite_ref-286>* "Mogu li plate da preteknu cene" <https://
    rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5325991/mogu-li-plate-da-preteknu-cene-.html>
    [Can wages overtake prices?]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in
    Serbian). 12 December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231211210549/https://rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5325991/mogu-li-plate-da-
    preteknu-cene-.html> from the original on 11 December 2023.
    Retrieved 12 December 2023.
286. *^ <#cite_ref-287>* "Šta su najveće pretnje bezbednosti građana i
    države" <https://rts.rs/lat/tv/rts1/5326799/sta-su-najvece-pretnje-
    bezbednosti-gradjana-i-drzave.html> [What are the biggest threats to
    the security of citizens and the state]. /Radio Television of
    Serbia/ (in Serbian). 13 December 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231212222331/https://www.rts.rs/lat/tv/
    rts1/5326799/sta-su-najvece-pretnje-bezbednosti-gradjana-i-
    drzave.html> from the original on 12 December 2023. Retrieved 13
    December 2023.
287. *^ <#cite_ref-288>* "Aleksić: Svanuće novi dan za Srbiju bez
    nasilja; Simić: Nastavićemo da vojno i ekonomski ojačavamo zemlju"
    <https://rts.rs/lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5328159/aleksic-svanuce-novi-
    dan-za-srbiju-bez-nasilja-simic-nastavicemo-da-vojno-i-ekonomski-
    ojacavamo-zemlju.html> [Aleksić: A new day will dawn for Serbia
    without violence; Simić: We will continue to strengthen the country
    militarily and economically]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in
    Serbian). 14 December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231214112750/https://rts.rs/lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5328159/aleksic-
    svanuce-novi-dan-za-srbiju-bez-nasilja-simic-nastavicemo-da-vojno-i-
    ekonomski-ojacavamo-zemlju.html> from the original on 14 December
    2023. Retrieved 14 December 2023.
288. *^ <#cite_ref-289>* "Mihailović o izbornoj kampanji SNS: Neće biti
    čistija, a da li će biti prljavija – videćemo" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/mihailovic-o-izbornoj-kampanji-sns-nece-biti-cistija-a-da-li-
    ce-biti-prljavija-videcemo/> [Mihailović on the SNS election
    campaign: It will not be cleaner, but we will see if it will be
    dirtier]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 13 October 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231019043147/https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    mihailovic-o-izbornoj-kampanji-sns-nece-biti-cistija-a-da-li-ce-
    biti-prljavija-videcemo/> from the original on 19 October 2023.
    Retrieved 22 October 2023.
289. *^ <#cite_ref-290>* "Koje teme će biti dominantne uoči predstojećih
    izbora, kad god oni bili?" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/vojvodina/
    novi-sad/koje-teme-ce-biti-dominantne-uoci-predstojecih-izbora-kad-
    god-oni-bili_1481309.html> [Which topics will be dominant in the
    run-up to the upcoming elections, whenever they are?]. /Radio
    Television of Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 6 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231011220845/https://www.rtv.rs/
    sr_lat/vojvodina/novi-sad/koje-teme-ce-biti-dominantne-uoci-
    predstojecih-izbora-kad-god-oni-bili_1481309.html> from the original
    on 11 October 2023. Retrieved 22 October 2023.
290. *^ <#cite_ref-291>* "Pejić: Kosovo će biti jedna od tri dominantne
    teme na izborima" <https://www.blic.rs/vesti/politika/pejic-kosovo-
    ce-biti-jedna-od-tri-dominantne-teme-na-izborima-u-srbiji/260wmkf>
    [Pejić: Kosovo will be one of the three dominant topics in the
    elections]. /Blic/ (in Serbian). 30 September 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231101094201/https://www.blic.rs/
    vesti/politika/pejic-kosovo-ce-biti-jedna-od-tri-dominantne-teme-na-
    izborima-u-srbiji/260wmkf> from the original on 1 November 2023.
    Retrieved 22 October 2023.
291. *^ <#cite_ref-292>* "Kosovo bi mogla biti glavna tema izbora:
    "Opozicija se decenijama ravna prema najjačem u vlasti umesto prema
    građanima"" <https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/101528/kosovo-
    bi-mogla-biti-glavna-tema-izbora-opozicija-se-decenijama-ravna-
    prema-najjacem-u-vlasti-umesto-prema-gradanima/vest> [Kosovo could
    be the main topic of the election: "For decades, the opposition has
    been aligning itself with the strongest in power instead of the
    citizens."]. /Euronews/ (in Serbian). 5 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231101092659/https://www.euronews.rs/
    srbija/politika/101528/kosovo-bi-mogla-biti-glavna-tema-izbora-
    opozicija-se-decenijama-ravna-prema-najjacem-u-vlasti-umesto-prema-
    gradanima/vest> from the original on 1 November 2023. Retrieved 22
    October 2023.
292. *^ <#cite_ref-293>* "Klačar: Usvajanjem medijskih zakona se ne mogu
    očekivati velike promene do kraja godine" <https://www.rtv.rs/
    sr_lat/politika/klacar-usvajanjem-medijskih-zakona-se-ne-mogu-
    ocekivati-velike-promene-do-kraja-godine_1486084.html> [Klačar: With
    the adoption of media laws, no major changes can be expected until
    the end of the year]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/ (in Serbian).
    20 October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231021144120/https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/politika/klacar-usvajanjem-
    medijskih-zakona-se-ne-mogu-ocekivati-velike-promene-do-kraja-
    godine_1486084.html> from the original on 21 October 2023. Retrieved
    23 October 2023.
293. *^ <#cite_ref-294>* Antonijević, Milena (7 November 2023). "Serbia's
    election campaigns all highlight Kosovo and inflation" <https://
    www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/serbias-election-campaigns-
    all-highlight-kosovo-and-inflation/>. /Euractiv/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231107070843/https://www.euractiv.com/section/
    politics/news/serbias-election-campaigns-all-highlight-kosovo-and-
    inflation/> from the original on 7 November 2023. Retrieved 7
    November 2023.
294. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:46_295-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    46_295-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:46_295-2> Janković, Jelena; Katić,
    Miloš (14 December 2023). "Najskuplju kampanju u Srbiji vodi
    Vučićeva partija" <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/srbija-izbori-
    kampanja-troskovi/32730436.html> [The most expensive campaign in
    Serbia is run by Vučić's party]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian).
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231214104948/https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/srbija-izbori-kampanja-troskovi/
    32730436.html> from the original on 14 December 2023. Retrieved 14
    December 2023.
295. *^ <#cite_ref-296>* "Vučеvić najavio sеdnicu GO SNS: Na proslavi 15
    godina strankе ulazimo u izbornu kampanju" <https://www.blic.rs/
    vesti/politika/vucevic-najavio-sednicu-go-sns-na-proslavi-15-godina-
    stranke-ulazimo-u-izbornu/6zse8y0> [Vučević announced the session of
    the main board of SNS: On the celebration of the 15 years of the
    party, we will enter the election campaign]. /Blic/ (in Serbian). 10
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231016183558/
    https://www.blic.rs/vesti/politika/vucevic-najavio-sednicu-go-sns-
    na-proslavi-15-godina-stranke-ulazimo-u-izbornu/6zse8y0> from the
    original on 16 October 2023. Retrieved 21 October 2023.
296. *^ <#cite_ref-297>* Savić, Danilo (17 October 2023). "Velika mrsna
    SNS kampanja: Živeo predsednik, a sad dajte pečenje da se "ne ladi""
    <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/ziveo-predsednik-a-sad-dajte-
    pecenje-da-se-ne-ladi-naprednjaci-pod-satrama-okupljaju-narod-i-
    traze-glasove/> [A big fat SNS campaign: Long live the president,
    now give the roast so that it "does not get cold"]. /NOVA portal/
    (in Serbian). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231022224359/
    https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/ziveo-predsednik-a-sad-dajte-pecenje-
    da-se-ne-ladi-naprednjaci-pod-satrama-okupljaju-narod-i-traze-
    glasove/> from the original on 22 October 2023. Retrieved 21 October
    2023.
297. *^ <#cite_ref-298>* "Vučić na proslavi SNS u Šapcu: Predstojeći
    izbori najvažniji do sada" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/foto-video-
    vucic-na-proslavi-sns-u-sapcu-predstojeci-izbori-najvazniji-do-sada/
    > [Vučić at the SNS celebration in Šabac: The upcoming elections are
    the most important so far]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 21 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231021112121/https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/foto-video-vucic-na-proslavi-sns-u-sapcu-
    predstojeci-izbori-najvazniji-do-sada/> from the original on 21
    October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
298. *^ <#cite_ref-299>* "Kako je Vučić ucenjivao svog političkog oca kog
    sad potura glasačima: Pretnja koja je presudila političkoj karijeri
    Tome Nikolića" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/ovako-je-vucic-
    ucenjivao-svog-politickog-oca-kog-sad-hoce-da-poturi-glasacima-
    detalji-sastanka-i-pretnja-koja-je-presudila-nikolicu-i-njegovoj-
    politickoj-karijeri/> [How Vučić blackmailed his political father,
    who is now telling the voters: The threat that decided the political
    career of Toma Nikolić]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 24 October
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231027183407/https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/ovako-je-vucic-ucenjivao-svog-politickog-oca-
    kog-sad-hoce-da-poturi-glasacima-detalji-sastanka-i-pretnja-koja-je-
    presudila-nikolicu-i-njegovoj-politickoj-karijeri/> from the
    original on 27 October 2023. Retrieved 24 October 2023.
299. *^ <#cite_ref-300>* "Stefan Krkobabić: PUPS će insistirati na
    socijalnim penzijama" <https://beta.rs/content/192301-stefan-
    krkobabic-pups-ce-insistirati-na-socijalnim-penzijama> [Stefan
    Krkobabić: PUPS will insist on social pensions]. /Novinska agencija
    Beta/ (in Serbian). 15 October 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231020163622/https://beta.rs/content/192301-
    stefan-krkobabic-pups-ce-insistirati-na-socijalnim-penzijama> from
    the original on 20 October 2023. Retrieved 22 October 2023.
300. *^ <#cite_ref-301>* "Opozicija se okuplja oko Srpske napredne
    stranke" <https://boom93.rs/arhiva/info-arhiva/srbija/opozicija-se-
    okuplja-oko-srpske-napredne-stranke/> [Opposition is gathering
    around the Serbian Progressive Party]. /Boom93/ (in Serbian). 16
    November 2010. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220202002617/
    https://boom93.rs/arhiva/info-arhiva/srbija/opozicija-se-okuplja-
    oko-srpske-napredne-stranke/> from the original on 2 February 2022.
    Retrieved 2 September 2022.
301. *^ <#cite_ref-302>* "Zašto Karićev PSS nije na listi SNS prvi put od
    2012. godine" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/zasto-karicev-
    pss-nije-na-listi-sns-prvi-put-od-2012-godine/> [Why Karić's PSS is
    not on the SNS list for the first time since 2012]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 7 November 2023. Retrieved 7 November 2023.
302. *^ <#cite_ref-303>* "Macura, Kena, Bulatović: Vučića zvali šonjom i
    izdajnikom Kosova – novi SNS lavovi za svoj prelet krive sve od
    Đilasa do Danasa" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/
    macura-kena-milojicic-vucica-zvali-sonjom-i-izdajnikom-kosova-novi-
    sns-lavovi-za-svoj-prelet-krive-sve-od-djilasa-do-danasa/> [Macura,
    Kena, Bulatović: They called Vučić a coward and a traitor of Kosovo
    – the new SNS lions blame everyone from Đilas to Danas for their
    switch]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 5 November 2023. Retrieved 7 November
    2023.
303. *^ <#cite_ref-304>* Latković, Nataša (29 October 2023). "Predsednik
    Srbije u "ful gasu": Vučić nezaustavljivo troši naše pare da bi
    sačuvao vlast" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/predsednik-srbije-u-
    ful-gasu-vucic-nezaustavljivo-trosi-nase-pare-da-bi-sacuvao-vlast/>
    [The President of Serbia in "full throttle": Vučić unstoppably
    spends our money to preserve power]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian).
    Retrieved 29 October 2023.
304. *^ <#cite_ref-305>* Gajić, Petar (11 November 2023). "Predsednik
    svih građana, a u kampanji SNS-a: Vučić opet isto, samo ne izlazi iz
    frižidera" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/predsednik-svih-
    gradjana-a-u-kampanji-sns-a-vucic-opet-isto-samo-ne-izlazi-iz-
    frizidera/> [President of all citizens, but in the SNS campaign:
    Vučić is doing the same again, only he doesn't come out of the
    fridge]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 13 November 2023.
305. *^ <#cite_ref-306>* Kaiser, Markus (15 December 2023). "lection in
    the shadow of an all-powerful president" <https://www.freiheit.org/
    de/westliche-balkanlaender/election-shadow-all-powerful-
    president>. /Friedrich Naumann Foundation/. Retrieved 16 December 2023.
306. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:54_307-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    54_307-1> Stojković, Anđelija (30 October 2023). "Opozicija jednako
    Đilas" <http://fonet.rs/politika/36384332/opozicija-jednako-
    djilas.html> [Opposition equals Đilas]. /FoNet portal/ (in Serbian).
    Retrieved 1 November 2023.
307. *^ <#cite_ref-308>* "Vučić: Đukanović priča gluposti, ZSO budućnost
    za Kurtija, priznaćemo volju naroda nakon izbora" <https://beta.rs/
    content/192483-vucic-dukanovic-prica-gluposti-zso-buducnost-za-
    kurtija-priznacemo-volju-naroda-nakon-izbora> [Vučić: Đukanović is
    talking nonsense, ZSO is the future for Kurti, we will recognise the
    will of the people after the elections]. /Novinska agencija Beta/
    (in Serbian). 18 October 2023. Retrieved 22 October 2023.
308. *^ <#cite_ref-309>* "Vučić na Pinku započeo kampanju: Postoji plan
    stranih službi za svrgavanje SNS" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucic-na-
    pinku-plan-stranih-sluzbi-za-rusenje-sns/> [Vučić started a campaign
    on Pink: There is a plan of foreign governments to overthrow the
    SNS]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 22 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
309. *^ <#cite_ref-310>* "Vučević: Apelovao sam da se poveća izborni
    cenzus, ali to nije prihvaćeno" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/vucevic-
    apelovao-sam-da-se-poveca-izborni-cenzus-ali-to-nije-prihvaceno/>
    [Vučević: I appealed to increase the electoral threshold, but it was
    not accepted]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 24 October 2023. Retrieved 24
    October 2023.
310. *^ <#cite_ref-311>* "Weekly Campaign Overview: SNS holds first three
    rallies, focuses on salaries and infrastructure" <https://
    serbiaelects.europeanwesternbalkans.com/2023/11/12/weekly-campaign-
    overview-6-12-november-sns-holds-first-three-rallies-focuses-on-
    salaries-and-infrastructure/>. /European Western Balkans/. 12
    November 2023. Retrieved 13 November 2023.
311. *^ <#cite_ref-312>* "Ministar Martinović: Opozicija želi da izazove
    građanski rat" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/
    ministar-martinovic-opozicija-zeli-da-izazove-gradjanski-rat/>
    [Minister Martinović: The opposition wants to provoke a civil
    war]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 10 November 2023. Retrieved 10 November
    2023.
312. *^ <#cite_ref-313>* Milenković, M. R. (11 November 2023). "Ne sprema
    opozicija haos i demonstracije posle izbora, već se vlast plaši
    novog 5. oktobra: Izjava Ane Brnabić je klasična priča "o lopovu
    koji viče držte lopova"" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    izbori-2023/izjava-ane-brnabic-haos/> [The opposition is not
    preparing chaos and demonstrations after the elections, but the
    government is afraid of a new 5 October: Ana Brnabić's statement is
    a classic story "about a thief who shouts, catch the thief"]. /
    Danas/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 11 November 2023.
313. *^ <#cite_ref-314>* "CRTA: Omogućite građanima da izađu na izbore
    bez straha od "haosa i građanskog rata"" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/crta-omogucite-gradjanima-da-izadju-na-izbore-bez-
    straha-od-haosa-i-gradjanskog-rata/> [CRTA: Let citizens to go to
    the polls without fear of "chaos and civil war"]. /N1/ (in Serbian).
    11 November 2023. Retrieved 13 November 2023.
314. *^ <#cite_ref-315>* Tatalović, Žaklina (12 November 2023). "Vlast
    zastrašuje građane: Martinović pominje čak i građanski rat,
    opozicija – čuvamo volju naroda" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/vlast-zastrasuje-gradjane-martinovic-pominje-cak-i-
    gradjanski-rat-opozicija-cuvamo-volju-naroda/> [The government
    intimidates the citizens: Martinović even mentions the civil war,
    the opposition – we protect the will of the people]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). Retrieved 13 November 2023.
315. *^ <#cite_ref-316>* "Penzionerima i studentima popust za vozne i
    avio-karte, po 10.000 dinara korisnicima socijalne pomoći do 1.
    decembra" <https://www.euronews.rs/biznis/biznis-vesti/103503/
    penzionerima-i-studentima-popust-za-vozne-i-avio-karte-po-10000-
    dinara-korisnicima-socijalne-pomoci-do-1-decembra/vest> [Pensioners
    and students discount for train and plane tickets, 10,000 dinars
    each for beneficiaries of social assistance until 1 December]. /
    Euronews/ (in Serbian). 29 October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
316. *^ <#cite_ref-317>* Bogdanović, Nevena (30 October 2023). "Srbija na
    pragu novih izbora: Koliko će koštati vanredno glasanje?" <https://
    www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/izbori-srbija-kampanja-troskovi/
    32660328.html> [Serbia on the threshold of new elections: How much
    will the snap vote cost?]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian).
    Retrieved 1 November 2023.
317. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:62_318-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    62_318-1> Kojić, Nikola (31 October 2023). "Deo opozicije podnosi
    prijavu protiv Aleksandra Vučića" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    opozicija-podnosi-prijavu-protiv-aleksandra-vucica/> [Part of the
    opposition files a report against Aleksandar Vučić]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). Retrieved 1 November 2023.
318. *^ <#cite_ref-319>* "Profesor Čvorović za BETU: Vučić prekršio
    Ustav, Srbija je u stanju ličnog režima" <https://beta.rs/content/
    193468-profesor-cvorovic-za-betu-vucic-prekrsio-ustav-srbija-je-u-
    stanju-licnog-rezima> [Professor Čvorović for Beta: Vučić violated
    the Constitution, Serbia is in a state of personal regime]. /
    Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 2 November 2023. Retrieved 3
    November 2023.
319. *^ <#cite_ref-320>* "RIK odbacio prigovore da Vučić nije smeo da
    stavi svoje ime na izbornu listu" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    rik-odbacio-prigovore-da-vucic-nije-smeo-da-stavi-svoje-ime-na-
    izbornu-listu/> [RIK rejected complaints that Vučić was not allowed
    to put his name on the electoral list]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian).
    6 November 2023. Retrieved 7 November 2023.
320. *^ <#cite_ref-321>* "I škole u predizbornoj kampanji: Uvukli
    profesore u populističke mere Vlade o podeli 10.000 dinara"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/i-skole-u-predizbornoj-kampanji-uvukli-
    profesore-u-populisticke-mere-vlade-o-podeli-10-000-dinara/> [And
    schools are in the pre-election campaign too: Teachers were drawn
    into the government's populist measures on the distribution of
    10,000 dinars]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 1 December 2023. Retrieved 1
    December 2023.
321. *^ <#cite_ref-322>* "SNS počela prikupljanje potpisa podrške za
    predaju izbornih lista" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/video-sns-
    pocela-prikupljanje-potpisa-podrske-za-predaju-izbornih-lista/> [SNS
    started collecting signatures of support for the submission of
    election lists]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 1 November 2023.
    Retrieved 2 November 2023.
322. *^ <#cite_ref-323>* "Izbornu listu "Srbija ne sme da stane" do 22
    sata podržalo 83.427 građana" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/
    vesti/57192/izbornu-listu-srbija-ne-sme-da-stane-do-22-sata-
    podrzalo-83427-gradana/vest> [The electoral list "Serbia must not
    stop" was supported by 83,427 citizens by 10 p.m]. /Tanjug/ (in
    Serbian). 1 November 2023. Retrieved 2 November 2023.
323. *^ <#cite_ref-324>* "SNS prva predala RIK-u izbornu listu uz 92.637
    potpisa podrške" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/57305/sns-
    prva-predala-rik-u-izbornu-listu-uz-92637-potpisa-podrske/vest> [SNS
    was the first to submit the election list to the RIK with 92,637
    signatures of support]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 2 November 2023.
    Retrieved 2 November 2023.
324. *^ <#cite_ref-325>* "Predsednik Srbije na predizbornom mitingu SNS:
    Zašto su Leskovac i Leskovčani i u obećanjima građani drugog reda?"
    <https://jugpress.com/predsednik-srbije-na-predizbornom-mitingu-sns-
    zasto-su-leskovac-i-leskovcani-i-u-obecanjima-gradjani-drugog-reda/>
    [The president of Serbia at the SNS pre-election rally: Why are
    Leskovac and the people of Leskovac second-class citizens in their
    promises?]. /Jugpress/ (in Serbian). 5 November 2023. Retrieved 6
    November 2023.
325. *^ <#cite_ref-326>* "SNS počeo kampanju iz Leskovca: Vučić pričao o
    opoziciji, fabrikama i penzijama" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    sns-poceo-kampanju-iz-leskovca-vucic-pricao-o-opoziciji-fabrikama-i-
    penzijama/> [SNS started the campaign from Leskovac: Vučić talked
    about the opposition, factories and pensions]. /NOVA portal/ (in
    Serbian). 5 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November 2023.
326. *^ <#cite_ref-327>* Janković, Miloš (8 November 2023). "Orlić i
    Đurić posetili Rumu" <http://fonet.rs/izbori-2023/36388185/orlic-i-
    djuric-posetili-rumu.html> [Orlić and Đurić visited Ruma]. /FoNet
    portal/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 8 November 2023.
327. *^ <#cite_ref-328>* "Predsednik države opet na partijskom
    predizbornom mitingu SNS" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    vucic-na-mitingu-sns-u-pirotu-hocu-da-za-cetiri-godine-prosecna-
    plata-bude-veca-od-1-000-evra/> [The President of Serbia again at a
    SNS pre-election party rally]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 9 November 2023.
    Retrieved 9 November 2023.
328. *^ <#cite_ref-329>* "Vučić u Smederevu: Ako pobedi opozicija, ja
    neću da budem predsednik" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    vucic-na-mitingu-u-smederevu-ako-pobedi-opozicija-necu-da-budem-
    predsednik/> [Vučić in Smederevo: If the opposition wins, I will not
    be the president anymore]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 12 November 2023.
    Retrieved 13 November 2023.
329. *^ <#cite_ref-330>* "Kako naprednjaci, Vučević i Pilja, u kampanji
    love glasove žena?" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    izbori-2023/kako-naprednjaci-vucevic-i-pilja-u-kampanji-love-
    glasove-zena/> [How do the Progressives, Vučević and Pilja, hunt
    women's votes in the campaign?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 11 November
    2023. Retrieved 13 November 2023.
330. *^ <#cite_ref-331>* "Vučević u Novom Sadu, Beški i Selenči"
    <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/parlamentarni-izbori/vucevic-
    u-novom-sadu-beski-i-selenci_1492509.html> [Vučević in Novi Sad,
    Beška and Selenča]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 11
    November 2023. Retrieved 13 November 2023.
331. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:45_332-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    45_332-1> Cvetković, Ljudmila (1 December 2023). "Ko se takmiči na
    parlamentarnim izborima u Srbiji?" <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/
    a/srbija-parlamentarni-izbori-kandidati/32707104.html> [Who is
    competing in the parliamentary elections in Serbia?]. /Radio Free
    Europe/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 2 December 2023.
332. *^ <#cite_ref-333>* ""Nikolić na mitingu SNS – da kompenzuje 'izdaju
    Kosova'": Kakva nam je predizborna kampanja" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/izbori-2023/nikolic-na-mitingu-sns-da-kompenzuje-izdaju-
    kosova-kakva-nam-je-predizborna-kampanja/> ["Nikolić at the SNS
    meeting – to compensate for the 'betrayal of Kosovo'": How is the
    pre-election campaign]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 3 December 2023.
    Retrieved 3 December 2023.
333. *^ <#cite_ref-334>* Jelovac, Jelena (4 December 2023). "Aca Rošavi,
    huligan i saradnik Belivuka, predvodio simpatizere SNS na konvenciji
    u Areni: Nova.rs fotografisala trenutak kad kreću na skup" <https://
    nova.rs/vesti/politika/otkrivamo-aca-rosavi-huligan-i-saradnik-
    belivuka-predvodio-simpatizere-sns-na-konvenciji-u-areni-nova-rs-
    fotografisala-trenutak-kad-krecu-na-skup/> [Aca Rošavi, a hooligan
    and associate of Belivuk, led SNS sympathisers at the convention in
    the Arena: Nova.rs photographed the moment when they were going to
    the rally]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 4 December 2023.
334. *^ <#cite_ref-335>* Pavkov, Ksenija (13 December 2023). "Završni
    miting Srpske napredne stranke održan u Novom Sadu" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/zavrsni-miting-srpske-napredne-stranke-
    odrzan-u-novom-sadu/> [The final meeting of the Serbian Progressive
    Party was held in Novi Sad]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 14
    December 2023.
335. *^ <#cite_ref-:112_336-0>* "Socijalistička partija Srbije,
    Jedinstvena Srbija i Zeleni Srbije potpisali koalicioni sporazum"
    <https://beta.rs/content/193420-socijalisticka-parija-srbije-
    jedinstvena-srbija-i-zeleni-srbije-potpisali-koalicioni-sporazum>
    [The Socialist Party of Serbia, United Serbia and the Greens of
    Serbia signed a coalition agreement]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in
    Serbian). 1 November 2023. Retrieved 1 November 2023.
336. *^ <#cite_ref-337>* "SNS prva predala izborne liste; Tadić: SDS
    prihvata da bude na listi "Srbija protiv nasilja"" <https://rts.rs/
    lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5302210/sns-prva-predala-izborne-liste-tadic-
    sds-prihvata-da-bude-na-listi-srbija-protiv-nasilja.html> [SNS
    submitted its list first; Tadić: SDS accepts to be on the "Serbia
    Against Violence" list]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian).
    2 November 2023. Retrieved 3 November 2023.
337. *^ <#cite_ref-338>* "Boban Stojanović: RIK je morao da poništi listu
    SPS-a za parlamentarne izbore zbog nepravilnosti" <https://beta.rs/
    content/193723-boban-stojanovic-rik-je-morao-da-ponisti-listu-sps-a-
    za-parlamentarne-izbore-zbog-nepravilnosti> [Boban Stojanović: RIK
    had to cancel the SPS list for the parliamentary elections due to
    irregularities]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 7 November
    2023. Retrieved 7 November 2023.
338. *^ <#cite_ref-339>* "Predsednik NPS Darko Banjac dao podršku listi
    "Ivica Dačić – premijer Srbije"" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/
    vesti/59697/predsednik-nps-darko-banjac-dao-podrsku-listi-ivica-
    dacic-premijer-srbije/vest> [The President of NPS Darko Banjac
    expressed support for the "Ivica Dačić – Prime Minister of Serbia"
    list]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 16 November 2023. Retrieved 16
    November 2023.
339. *^ <#cite_ref-340>* Milenković, M. R. (15 November 2023).
    "Opozicioni status je najveća noćna mora Ivice Dačića: Naprednjaci
    gađajući Bajatovića, ciljaju lidera SPS" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/izbori-2023/sns-dacic-bajatovic/> [The opposition
    status is Ivica Dačić's biggest nightmare: Progressives, targeting
    Bajatović, also targeting SPS leader]. /Danas/ (in Serbian).
    Retrieved 15 November 2023.
340. *^ <#cite_ref-341>* "Dačić: SPS je garant političke stabilnosti"
    <https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/104825/dacic-sps-je-garant-
    politicke-stabilnosti/vest> [Dačić: SPS is the guarantee to
    political stability]. /Euronews/ (in Serbian). 12 November 2023.
    Retrieved 13 November 2023.
341. *^ <#cite_ref-342>* "Ivica Dačić: Potreban nam je omladinski
    aktivizam" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/59904/ivica-
    dacic-potreban-nam-je-omladinski-aktivizam/vest> [Ivica Dačić: We
    need youth activism]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 17 November 2023.
    Retrieved 17 November 2023.
342. *^ <#cite_ref-343>* "Predizbirna konvencija liste Ivica Dačića-
    Premijer Srbije u Ljuboviji" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/
    parlamentarni-izbori/predizbirna-konvencija-liste-ivica-dacica-
    premijer-srbije-u-ljuboviji_1494442.html> [Pre-election convention
    of the list of Ivica Dačić – Prime Minister of Serbia in
    Ljubovija]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 18
    November 2023. Retrieved 18 November 2023.
343. *^ <#cite_ref-344>* "Dačić: Verujem u socijalističke principe i
    jednake mogućnosti" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    izbori-2023/dacic-verujem-u-socijalisticke-principe-i-jednake-
    mogucnosti/> [Dačić: I believe in socialist principles and equal
    opportunities]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 21 November 2023. Retrieved 21
    November 2023.
344. *^ <#cite_ref-345>* "Dačić: Milošević bio primer kako se zemlja voli
    i brani, ne štedeći ni sopstveni život" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/dacic-milosevic-bio-primer-kako-se-zemlja-voli-i-brani-
    ne-stedeci-ni-sopstveni-zivot/> [Dačić: Milošević was an example of
    how to love and defend the country, not even sparing one's own
    life]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 23 November 2023. Retrieved 23 November 2023.
345. *^ <#cite_ref-346>* "Stranke i pokreti oko liste Srbija protiv
    nasilja potpisali koalicioni sporazum" <https://beta.rs/content/
    193523-stranke-i-pokreti-oko-liste-srbija-protiv-nasilja-potpisali-
    koalicioni-sporazum> [Parties and movements around the Serbia
    Against Violence list signed a coalition agreement]. /Novinska
    agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 3 November 2023. Retrieved 3 November 2023.
346. *^ <#cite_ref-347>* "Izborna koalicija Srbija protiv nasilja predala
    listu" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/izborna-koalicija-
    srbija-protiv-nasilja-predaje-listu-rik-u/> [Electoral alliance
    Serbia Against Violence submitted its list]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 8
    November 2023. Retrieved 8 November 2023.
347. *^ <#cite_ref-348>* "Lutovac: Nema kamena spoticanja u proevropskoj
    opoziciji, Matković ili Vujačić za premijera" <https://beta.rs/
    content/192468-lutovac-nema-kamena-spoticanja-u-proevropskoj-
    opoziciji-matkovic-ili-vujacic-za-premijera> [Lutovac: There are no
    stumbling blocks in the pro-European opposition, Matković or Vujačić
    for prime minister]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 18
    October 2023. Retrieved 21 October 2023.
348. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:210_349-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    210_349-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:210_349-2> Savić, Danilo (20 October
    2023). "Izbori nisu ni raspisani, a naprednjaci već krenuli u napad
    na lidere opozicije: U kampanju opasnog targetiranja uključili su se
    visoki funkcioneri SNS" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-nisu-
    ni-raspisani-a-naprednjaci-vec-krenuli-u-napad-na-lidere-opozicije-
    u-kampanju-opasnog-targetiranja-ukljucili-su-se-visoki-funkcioneri-
    sns/> [The elections have not even been announced, and the
    Progressives have already started attacking the leaders of the
    opposition: high-ranking SNS officials joined the campaign of
    dangerous targeting]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 22
    October 2023.
349. *^ <#cite_ref-350>* "U poštanskim sandučićima leci protiv
    Milivojevića i Jovanovića" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/u-postanskim-
    sanducicima-leci-portiv-srdjana-milivojevica-i-aleksandra-
    jovanovica/> [In mailboxes, flyers against Milivojević and
    Jovanović]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 21 October 2023. Retrieved 22 October
    2023.
350. *^ <#cite_ref-351>* "Novo targetiranje lidera opozicije: Oblepljeno
    više od 200 plakata na Zvezdari" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    novo-targetiranje-lidera-opozicije-oblepljeno-vise-od-200-plakata-
    na-zvezdari-foto/> [New targeting of opposition leaders: More than
    200 posters pasted on Zvezdara]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 22
    October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
351. *^ <#cite_ref-352>* "Aleksić o uvredljivim flajerima: Vučić
    reciklira stare laži o meni iz straha od gubitka vlasti" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/miroslav-aleksic-uvredljivi-flajeri-
    aleksandar-vucic-reciklira-lazi/> [Aleksić on the offensive flyers:
    Vučić recycles old lies about me for fear of losing power]. /Danas/
    (in Serbian). 19 October 2023. Retrieved 22 October 2023.
352. *^ <#cite_ref-353>* "Grbović (PSG) podneo prijave zbog plakata na
    kojima je prikazan u ustaškoj uniformi" <https://beta.rs/content/
    193149-grbovic-psg-podneo-prijave-zbog-plakata-na-kojima-je-
    prikazan-u-ustaskoj-uniformi> [Grbović (PSG) filed complaints
    because of posters showing him in Ustaša uniform]. /Novinska
    agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 28 October 2023. Retrieved 29 October 2023.
353. *^ <#cite_ref-354>* "Veselinović: Fizički me napao direktor Gradskog
    zelenila u Novom Sadu" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/janko-veselinovic-
    fizicki-me-napao-direktor-zelenila-iz-novog-sada-tokom-kampanje/>
    [Veselinović: I was physically attacked by the director of City
    Greenery in Novi Sad]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 12 November 2023.
    Retrieved 17 November 2023.
354. *^ <#cite_ref-355>* "Radikalske metode: Nalepnice "Tajkun Đilas" i
    grafiti "Đilas lopov" osvanuli na prostorijama SSP-a" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/ssp-uvredljivi-grafiti-
    djilas/> [Radical methods: "Tycon Đilas" stickers and "Đilas the
    thief" graffiti appeared on the premises of the SSP]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). 16 November 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
355. *^ <#cite_ref-356>* "Grbović: Vratićemo penzionerima otete penzije"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/grbovic-vraticemo-penzionerima-
    otete-penzije/> [Grbović: We will give back pensioners the pensions
    that were stolen from them]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 13 November 2023.
    Retrieved 13 November 2023.
356. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:35_357-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    35_357-1> "Ćuta: Zaustavićemo pljačku države i vratiti otete
    penzije" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/cuta-zaustavicemo-
    pljacku-drzave-i-vratiti-otete-penzije/> [Ćuta: We will stop the
    looting of the state and return stolen pensions]. /N1/ (in Serbian).
    16 November 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
357. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:63_358-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    63_358-1> Jelovac, Jelena; Savić, Danilo (16 November 2023). "Ovo je
    prvih 5 poteza koje bi opozicija povukla posle rušenja SNS sa
    vlasti" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/ovo-je-prvih-5-poteza-koje-
    bi-opozicija-povukla-posle-rusenja-sns-sa-vlasti/> [These are the
    first 5 moves that the opposition would make after the overthrow of
    the SNS from power]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 16
    November 2023.
358. *^ <#cite_ref-:55_359-0>* "Povećanje plata u zdravstvu i prosveti,
    vraćanje penzija...: Đilas predstavio šta je plan SSP ako opozicija
    sruši SNS na izborima" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/povecanje-
    plata-u-zdravstvu-i-prosveti-vracanje-penzija-djilas-predstavio-sta-
    je-plan-ssp-ako-opozicija-srusi-sns-na-izborima/> [Increase in
    salaries in health and education, pensions restored...: Đilas
    presented what the SSP plan is if the opposition overthrows the SNS
    in the elections]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 30 October 2023.
    Retrieved 1 November 2023.
359. *^ <#cite_ref-360>* Nešić, Nenad (12 December 2023). ""Pobedićemo
    parizer dahije, u nedelju uzimamo sudbinu u ruke": Veliki miting
    opozicije u Beogradu" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/veliki-
    miting-opozicije-u-beogradu-obratice-se-11-lidera-planirana-i-
    setnja-do-rik/> ["We will defeat the Baloney dahias, on Sunday we
    will take our fate into our hands": Big meeting of the opposition in
    Belgrade]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 12 December 2023.
360. *^ <#cite_ref-361>* "Koalicija NADA počela predizbornu kampanju:
    Borba protiv korupcije i nepotizma prioriteti" <https://beta.rs/
    content/193135-koalicija-nada-pocela-predizbornu-kampanju-borba-
    protiv-korupcije-i-nepotizma-prioriteti> [Coalition NADA started
    election campaign: Fight against corruption and nepotism as
    priorities]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 28 October 2023.
    Retrieved 29 October 2023.
361. *^ <#cite_ref-362>* "Koalicija NADA: Vlast uništava naše bilborde"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/koalicija-nada-vlast-unistava-
    nase-bilborde/> [NADA coalition: The government is destroying our
    billboards]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 21 November 2023. Retrieved 21
    November 2023.
362. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:110_363-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    110_363-1> "Miloš Jovanović objasnio zašto ne napada proevropsku
    opoziciju" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/jovanovic-novi-dss-
    napadi-opozicija/> [Miloš Jovanović explained why he does not attack
    the pro-European opposition]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 17 October 2023.
    Retrieved 22 October 2023.
363. *^ <#cite_ref-364>* "Jovanović (Novi DSS): Saradnja cele opozicije
    jedini način da dođe do smene Vučićevog režima" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/jovanovic-novi-dss-saradnja-
    cele-opozicije-jedini-nacin-da-dodje-do-smene-vucicevog-rezima/>
    [Jovanović (New DSS): Cooperation of the entire opposition is the
    only way to change the Vučić regime]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 22
    November 2023. Retrieved 23 November 2023.
364. *^ <#cite_ref-365>* "Jovanović: Koalicija NADA se zalaže za većinski
    izborni sistem" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/jovanovic-
    koalicija-nada-se-zalaze-za-vecinski-izborni-sistem/> [Jovanović:
    The NADA coalition stands for a majoritarian electoral system]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 10 November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
365. *^ <#cite_ref-366>* "Miloš Jovanović: Vratiti odgovornost u lokalne
    samouprave" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/milos-
    jovanovic-vratiti-odgovornost-u-lokalne-samouprave/> [Miloš
    Jovanović: Return responsibility to local governments]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). 12 November 2023. Retrieved 13 November 2023.
366. *^ <#cite_ref-367>* "Koalicija NADA: Poljoprivreda da bude strateška
    grana privrede" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/koalicija-nada-
    poljoprivreda-da-bude-strateska-grana-privrede/> [Coalition NADA:
    Agriculture must be a strategic branch of the economy]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 14 November 2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
367. *^ <#cite_ref-368>* "NADA: Neophodne ozbiljne reforme u društvu,
    naročito zdravstvu" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/
    parlamentarni-izbori/nada-neophodne-ozbiljne-reforme-u-drustvu-
    narocito-zdravstvu_1494477.html> [NADA: Necessary serious reforms in
    society, especially health care]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/
    (in Serbian). 18 November 2023. Retrieved 19 November 2023.
368. *^ <#cite_ref-369>* "NADA: Otvoriti pitanje oblika vladavine i
    državnog uređenja" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/
    parlamentarni-izbori/nada-otvoriti-pitanje-oblika-vladavine-i-
    drzavnog-uredjenja_1495824.html> [NADA: To open the question of the
    form of government and state organisation]. /Radio Television of
    Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 23 November 2023. Retrieved 23 November 2023.
369. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:40_370-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    40_370-1> "Koalicija NADA: EU važan partner, ali ne zalažemo se za
    članstvo ako je uslov priznanje nezavisnosti Kosova" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/koalicija-nada-eu-vazan-partner-ali-ne-
    zalazemo-se-za-clanstvo-ako-je-uslov-priznanje-nezavisnosti-kosova/>
    [Coalition NADA: EU is an important partner, but we do not stand for
    membership if the condition is recognition of Kosovo's
    independence]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 22 November 2023. Retrieved 23
    November 2023.
370. *^ <#cite_ref-371>* Savatović, Mladen (10 December 2023). "Završna
    konvencija koalicije NADA – uz "Marš na Drinu", ali i suze"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/koalicija-nada-u-beogradu-mi-
    smo-jedina-nacionalna-demokratska-alternativa-aktuelnom-rezimu/>
    [The final convention of the NADA coalition – with "March on the
    Drina", but also tears]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 11 December 2023.
371. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:31_372-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    31_372-1> "Zavetnici i Dveri potpisali koalicioni sporazum –
    zajednički nastupaju na izborima" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/zavetnici-i-dveri-potpisali-koalicioni-sporazum-
    zajednicki-nastupaju-na-izborima/> [Oathkeepers and Dveri signed a
    coalition agreement – they participate in the elections together]. /
    N1/ (in Serbian). 1 November 2023. Retrieved 2 November 2023.
372. *^ <#cite_ref-373>* "Zavetnici i Dveri predali izbornu listu –
    "Nacionalno okupljanje – državotvorna snaga"- za parlamentarne
    izbore" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/parlamentarni-izbori/
    zavetnici-i-dveri-predali-izbornu-listu-nacionalno-okupljanje-
    drzavotvorna-snaga-za-parlamentarne-izbore_1490603.html>
    [Oathkeepers and Dveri handed over the electoral list – "National
    Gathering – State-Building Force" – for the parliamentary
    elections]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 4 November
    2023. Retrieved 4 November 2023.
373. *^ <#cite_ref-374>* "'Nacionalno okupljanje' Dveri i Zavetnika
    predalo potpise RIK-u" <https://beta.rs/content/193597-nacionalno-
    okupljanje-dveri-i-zavetnika-predalo-potpise-rik-u> ['National
    Gathering' of Dveri and Oathkeepers delivered their signatures to
    RIK]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 4 November 2023.
    Retrieved 6 November 2023.
374. *^ <#cite_ref-:232_375-0>* "Đurđević Stamenkovski: Mi želimo Evropu
    u kojoj će Srbija imati svoje mesto" <https://www.tanjug.rs/
    izbori-2023/vesti/59918/durdevic-stamenkovski-mi-zelimo-evropu-u-
    kojoj-ce-srbija-imati-svoje-mesto/vest> [Đurđević Stamenkovski: We
    want a Europe in which Serbia will have its place]. /Tanjug/ (in
    Serbian). 17 November 2023. Retrieved 17 November 2023.
375. *^ <#cite_ref-376>* "Dveri i Ravnogorski pokret potpisali Sporazum o
    saradnji: "Plod višegodišnje uzajamne podrške"" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/izbori-2023/dveri-i-ravnogorski-pokret-potpisali-sporazum-o-
    saradnji-plod-visegodisnje-uzajamne-podrske/> [Dveri and the Ravna
    Gora movement signed a cooperation agreement: "The fruit of many
    years of mutual support"]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 20 November 2023.
    Retrieved 20 November 2023.
376. *^ <#cite_ref-377>* Radovanović, Vojin (24 November 2023). "Boško
    Obradović predstavio novu podršku "Nacionalnom okupljanju": Među
    njima Mladen Obradović i borci protiv obavezne vakcinacije"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/obradovic-izbori-
    koalicija/> [Boško Obradović presented new support for the "National
    Gathering": Among them Mladen Obradović and fighters against
    mandatory vaccination]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 24 November
    2023.
377. *^ <#cite_ref-378>* "Boško Obradović: Povećati podsticaje za domaće
    privrednike i poljoprivrednike" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/
    izbori-2023/parlamentarni-izbori/bosko-obradovic-povecati-
    podsticaje-za-domace-privrednike-i-poljoprivrednike_1491303.html>
    [Boško Obradović: Increase incentives for domestic businessmen and
    farmers]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 7 November
    2023. Retrieved 7 November 2023.
378. *^ <#cite_ref-379>* "Dveri: Izgraditi bar po jedan novi studentski
    dom u Beogradu, Novom Sadu, Nišu i Kragujevcu" <https://beta.rs/
    content/194445-dveri-izgraditi-bar-po-jedan-novi-studentski-dom-u-
    beogradu-novom-sadu-nisu-i-ragujevcu> [Dveri: Construct at least one
    new student dormitory in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Niš, and Kragujevac]. /
    Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 17 November 2023. Retrieved 17
    November 2023.
379. *^ <#cite_ref-380>* "Obradović: Besplatni udžbenici za sve đake u
    Srbiji i novčana pomoć za ugrožene" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/
    izbori-2023/parlamentarni-izbori/obradovic-besplatni-udzbenici-za-
    sve-djake-u-srbiji-i-novcana-pomoc-za-ugrozene_1494475.html>
    [Obradović: Free textbooks for all students in Serbia and financial
    aid for the vulnerable]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/ (in
    Serbian). 18 November 2023. Retrieved 18 November 2023.
380. *^ <#cite_ref-381>* "Ristić: Vratiti Srbiji ekonomski suverenizam"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/ristic-vratiti-srbiji-
    ekonomski-suverenizam/> [Ristić: Serbia should get its economic
    sovereignty back]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 10 November 2023. Retrieved 10
    November 2023.
381. *^ <#cite_ref-382>* "Đurđević Stamenkovski: Potrebna hitna reforma
    prosvete" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/parlamentarni-
    izbori/djurdjevic-stamenkovski-potrebna-hitna-reforma-
    prosvete_1495307.html> [Đurđević Stamenkovski: Urgent education
    reform is needed]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 21
    November 2023. Retrieved 21 November 2023.
382. *^ <#cite_ref-383>* "Dveri: Vlast zabranjuje Nacionalno okupljanje"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/dveri-vlast-zabranjuje-
    nacionalno-okupljanje/> [Dveri: The government is forbidding
    National Gathering]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 16 November 2023. Retrieved
    16 November 2023.
383. *^ <#cite_ref-384>* Čolić, Leposava (7 November 2023). "Podrška Kine
    Srbiji" <http://fonet.rs/izbori-2023/36387726/podrska-kine-
    srbiji.html> [China's support to Serbia]. /FoNet portal/ (in
    Serbian). Retrieved 8 November 2023.
384. *^ <#cite_ref-385>* "Đurđević Stamenkovski: Evropska unija ima
    alternativu, a to je BRIKS" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    djurdjevic-stamenkovski-evropska-unija-ima-alternativu-a-to-je-
    briks/> [Đurđević Stamenkovski: The European Union has an
    alternative, and that is BRICS]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 14 November
    2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
385. *^ <#cite_ref-386>* "Kostić (Dveri): Srbija treba da pojača svoj
    odnos sa BRIKS-om" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/kostic-
    dveri-srbija-treba-da-pojaca-svoj-odnos-sa-briks-om/> [Kostić
    (Dveri): Serbia should strengthen its relationship with BRICS]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 18 November 2023. Retrieved 18 November 2023.
386. *^ <#cite_ref-387>* "Obradović: Srbija će ostati bez drugih delova
    teritorije ako se odrekne Kosova" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/obradovic-srbija-ce-ostati-bez-drugih-delova-teritorije-
    ako-se-odrekne-kosova/> [Obradović: Serbia will be left without
    other parts of the territory if it renounces Kosovo]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 16 November 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
387. *^ <#cite_ref-388>* "Đurđević: Postizborna saradnja moguća sa svima
    koji prihvate politiku Zavetnika o Kosovu" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/politika/izbori-2023/djurdjevic-postizborna-saradnja-moguca-
    sa-svima-koji-prihvate-politiku-zavetnika-o-kosovu/> [Đurđević:
    Post-election cooperation is possible with everyone who accepts the
    policy of the Oathkeepers on Kosovo]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 15
    November 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
388. *^ <#cite_ref-389>* "Održana Završna konvencija koalicije okupljene
    oko liste Nacionalnog okupljanja" <https://www.tanjug.rs/
    izbori-2023/vesti/63835/odrzana-zavrsna-konvencija-koalicije-
    okupljene-oko-liste-nacionalnog-okupljanja/vest> [The final
    convention of the coalition gathered around the list of the National
    Gathering was held]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 10 December 2023.
    Retrieved 11 December 2023.
389. *^ <#cite_ref-390>* "Šešelj: SRS predala izbornu listu sa nešto više
    od 11.000 potpisa građana" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/
    izbori-2023/seselj-srs-predala-izbornu-listu-sa-nesto-vise-
    od-11-000-potpisa-gradjana/> [Šešelj: SRS handed over its electoral
    list to RIK with more than 11,000 signatures from citizens]. /Danas/
    (in Serbian). 3 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November 2023.
390. *^ <#cite_ref-391>* "Proglašena izborna lista "Dr Vojislav Šešelj –
    Srpska radikalna stranka/"/ <https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/
    politika/104099/proglasena-izborna-lista-dr-vojislav-seselj-srpska-
    radikalna-stranka/vest>/[Electoral list "Dr Vojislav Šešelj –
    Serbian Radical Party" has been proclaimed]. /Euronews/(in Serbian).
    4 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November 2023.///
391. *^ <#cite_ref-392>* "Ristić (SRS) o zdravstvu: Da svako ko se
    razboli ima svog lekara na raspolaganju 24 sata dnevno" <https://
    beta.rs/content/193808-ristic-srs-o-zdravstvu-da-svako-ko-se-
    razboli-ima-svog-lekara-na-raspolaganju-24-sata-dnevno> [Ristić
    (SRS) on healthcare: Everyone who gets sick should have a doctor
    available 24 hours a day]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 8
    November 2023. Retrieved 8 November 2023.
392. *^ <#cite_ref-393>* "A. Šešelj: SRS se zalaže za ulaganje u domaću
    privredu i članstvo u BRIKS-u" <https://beta.rs/content/193910-a-
    seselj-srs-se-zalaze-za-ulaganje-u-domacu-privredu-i-clanstvo-u-
    briks-u> [A. Šešelj: SRS stands for investment in the domestic
    economy and membership in BRICS]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in
    Serbian). 9 November 2023. Retrieved 9 November 2023.
393. *^ <#cite_ref-394>* "SRS: Vršnjačko nasilje suzbiti pedagoškim
    merama prevencije" <https://beta.rs/content/194023-srs-vrsnjacko-
    nasilje-suzbiti-pedagoskim-merama-prevencije> [SRS: Suppress peer
    violence with pedagogical prevention measures]. /Novinska agencija
    Beta/ (in Serbian). 11 November 2023. Retrieved 11 November 2023.
394. *^ <#cite_ref-395>* "Aleksandar Šešelj: Zabranićemo sve nevladine
    organizacije koje promovišu nezavisno Kosovo" <https://
    www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/60538/aleksandar-seselj-zabranicemo-
    sve-nevladine-organizacije-koje-promovisu-nezavisno-kosovo/vest>
    [Aleksandar Šešelj: We will ban all non-governmental organisations
    that promote an independent Kosovo]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 21
    November 2023. Retrieved 21 November 2023.
395. *^ <#cite_ref-396>* "Šešelj: Ne bismo mogli da učestvujemo u vladi
    koja je proevropska" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/
    parlamentarni-izbori/seselj-ne-bismo-mogli-da-ucestvujemo-u-vladi-
    koja-je-proevropska_1493001.html> [Šešelj: We would not be able to
    participate in a pro-European government]. /Radio Television of
    Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 13 November 2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
396. *^ <#cite_ref-397>* "Srpska radikalna stranka: Srbija nije postigla
    rezultate u nacionalnom interesu na evropskom putu" <https://
    beta.rs/content/193631-srpska-radikalna-stranka-srbija-nije-
    postigla-rezultate-u-nacionalnom-interesu-na-evropskom-putu>
    [Serbian Radical Party: Serbia has not achieved results in the
    national interest on the European road]. /Novinska agencija Beta/
    (in Serbian). 5 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November 2023.
397. *^ <#cite_ref-398>* "Poseta palestinskog ambasadora" <http://
    fonet.rs/izbori-2023/36392140/poseta-palestinskog-ambasadora-.html>
    [Visit of the Palestinian ambassador]. /FoNet portal/ (in Serbian).
    16 November 2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
398. *^ <#cite_ref-399>* "Šešelj: Izrael uz podršku SAD sprovodi genocid
    nad Palestincima" <https://beta.rs/content/194384-seselj-izrael-uz-
    podrsku-sad-sprovodi-genocid-nad-palestincima> [Šešelj: Israel with
    the support of the USA is carrying out genocide against the
    Palestinians]. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 16 November
    2023. Retrieved 16 November 2023.
399. *^ <#cite_ref-400>* "Pastor: Savez vojvođanskih Mađara za nastavak
    saradnje sa SNS" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/
    parlamentarni-izbori/pastor-savez-vojvodjanskih-madjara-za-nastavak-
    saradnje-sa-sns_1493319.html> [Pastor: Alliance of Vojvodina
    Hungarians for continued cooperation with SNS]. /Radio Television of
    Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 14 November 2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
400. *^ <#cite_ref-401>* "Savez vojvođanskih Mađara na izbore ide uz
    podršku DSVM-a i SMJ-a" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/savez-
    vojvodjanskih-madjara-na-izbore-ide-uz-podrsku-dsvm-a-i-smj-a/> [The
    Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is going to the elections with the
    support of DSVM and SMJ]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 22 November 2023.
    Retrieved 23 November 2023.
401. *^ <#cite_ref-402>* "SPP na parlamentarnim izborima sa listom "Usame
    Zukorlić – Ujedinjeni za pravdu – SPP-DSHV"" <https://www.b92.net/
    info/izbori2023/vesti.php?nav_id=2427180> [SPP in the parliamentary
    elections with the list "Usame Zukorlić – United for Justice – SPP-
    DSHV"]. /B92/ (in Serbian). 4 November 2023. Retrieved 9 November 2023.
402. *^ <#cite_ref-403>* "Stranka pravde i pomirenja i Demokratski savez
    Hrvata u Vojvodini predali listu RIK" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/stranka-pravde-i-pomirenja-i-demokratski-savez-hrvata-u-
    vojvodini-predali-listu-rik/> [The Party of Justice and
    Reconciliation and the Democratic Alliance of Croats in Vojvodina
    submitted the list to the RIK]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 9 November 2023.
    Retrieved 9 November 2023.
403. *^ <#cite_ref-404>* "Zukorlić i Žigmanov o zajedničkoj listi:
    Sinergijom do snažnijeg glasa nevećinskih zajednica" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/zukorlic-i-zigmanov-o-zajednickoj-listi-
    sinergijom-do-snaznijeg-glasa-nevecinskih-zajednica/> [Zukorlić and
    Žigmanov on the joint list: Synergy to a stronger voice of non-
    majority communities]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 14 November 2023.
    Retrieved 15 November 2023.
404. *^ <#cite_ref-405>* "Zukorlić: Doći će dan za pomirenje Beograda i
    Prištine na principima pravde" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    zukorlic-doci-ce-dan-za-pomirenje-beograda-i-pristine-na-principima-
    pravde/> [Zukorlić: The day will come for the reconciliation of
    Belgrade and Priština on the principles of justice]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 21 November 2023. Retrieved 21 November 2023.
405. *^ <#cite_ref-406>* Ilić, Velimir (12 December 2023). "Podrška
    Žigmanovu" <http://fonet.rs/izbori-2023/36404539/podrska-
    zigmanovu.html> [Support to Žigmanov]. /FoNet portal/ (in Serbian).
    Retrieved 12 December 2023.
406. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:34_407-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    34_407-1> "SDA Sandžaka predala listu za parlamentarne izbore"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/sda-sandzaka-predala-listu-za-
    parlamentarne-izbore/> [SDA of Sandžak submitted its electoral list
    for parliamentary elections]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 15 November 2023.
    Retrieved 15 November 2023.
407. *^ <#cite_ref-408>* "Ugljanin: Borba protiv korupcije, kroz jačanje
    institucija i pravnog sistema važni za našu stranku" <https://
    www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/105687/ugljanin-borba-protiv-
    korupcije-kroz-jacanje-institucija-i-pravnog-sistema-vazni-za-nasu-
    stranku/vest> [Ugljanin: The fight against corruption, through the
    strengthening of institutions and the legal system, is important for
    our party]. /Euronews/ (in Serbian). 21 November 2023. Retrieved 21
    November 2023.
408. *^ <#cite_ref-409>* Mihajlović Jovanović, Suzana (28 April 2023).
    "Formira se Koalicija za mir i toleranciju" <https://
    www.ngportal.rs/formira-se-koalicija-za-mir-i-toleranciju/> [The
    Coalition for Peace and Tolerance is being formed]. /NG Portal/ (in
    Serbian). Retrieved 18 November 2023.
409. *^ <#cite_ref-410>* Novosel, Slađana (5 May 2023). "Najbliži
    saradnik Zukorlića, Jahja Fehratović napustio SPP" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/najblizi-saradnik-zukorlica-jahja-
    fehratovic-napustio-spp/> [The closest associate of Zukorlić, Jahja
    Fehratović, left SPP]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 18 November 2023.
410. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:36_411-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    36_411-1> "Fehratović osniva Stranku budućnosti i razvoja" <https://
    infolid.rs/politika/fehratovic-osniva-stranku-buducnosti-i-razvoja/>
    [Fehratović founds the Party of the Future and Development]. /
    Infolid/ (in Serbian). 30 October 2023. Retrieved 18 November 2023.
411. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:37_412-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    37_412-1> Spalović, Dejan (10 November 2023). "Formirana manjinska
    izborna lista "Zajedno za budućnost i razvoj – koalicija za mir i
    toleranciju"" <https://www.politika.rs/sr/clanak/583405/Formirana-
    manjinska-izborna-lista-Zajedno-za-buducnost-i-razvoj-koalicija-za-
    mir-i-toleranciju> [Formed minority electoral list "Together for the
    Future and Development – Coalition for Peace and Tolerance"]. /
    Politika/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 18 November 2023.
412. *^ <#cite_ref-413>* /17.11.2023. Изборна листа ЗАЈЕДНО ЗА БУДУЦНОСТ
    И РАЗВОЈ – КОАЛИЦИЈА ЗА МИР И ТОЛЕРАНЦИЈУ/ <https://www.youtube.com/
    watch?v=1bhU9WHxgMk> [/17.11.2023. Electoral list TOGETHER FOR THE
    FUTURE AND DEVELOPMENT – COALITION FOR PEACE AND TOLERANCE/]
    (Videotape) (in Serbian). Republic Electoral Commission. 17 November
    2023. Retrieved 18 November 2023.
413. *^ <#cite_ref-414>* "RIK: Koaliciji za mir i toleranciju nedostaje
    63 potpisa za proglašenje liste" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/
    vesti/60058/rik-koaliciji-za-mir-i-toleranciju-nedostaje-63-potpisa-
    za-proglasenje-liste/vest> [RIK: The Coalition for Peace and
    Tolerance lacks 63 signatures to announce the list]. /Tanjug/ (in
    Serbian). 18 November 2023. Retrieved 18 November 2023.
414. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:38_415-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    38_415-1> "Narodna stranka predala izbornu listu RIK-u" <https://
    www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/izbori-2023/parlamentarni-izbori/narodna-stranka-
    predala-izbornu-listu-rik-u_1494663.html> [The People's Party
    presented its electoral list to RIK]. /Radio Television of
    Vojvodina/ (in Serbian). 19 November 2023. Retrieved 19 November 2023.
415. *^ <#cite_ref-416>* "Jeremić: Srbija mora biti neutralna, to
    podrazumeva uvođenje vojnog roka" <https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/
    politika/105417/jeremic-srbija-mora-biti-neutralna-to-podrazumeva-
    uvodenje-vojnog-roka/vest> [Jeremić: Serbia must be neutral, that
    implies the introduction of military conscription]. /Euronews/ (in
    Serbian). 18 November 2023. Retrieved 19 November 2023.
416. *^ <#cite_ref-417>* "Vuk Jeremić: Srbija ne bi ušla u EU ni kada bi
    priznala "Kosovo"" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/
    vuk-jeremic-srbija-ne-bi-usla-u-eu-ni-kada-bi-priznala-kosovo/> [Vuk
    Jeremić: Serbia would not join the EU even if it recognized
    "Kosovo"]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 14 November 2023. Retrieved 19
    November 2023.
417. *^ <#cite_ref-418>* "Tadić: SDS spremna da bude deo liste 'Srbija
    protiv nasilja' uz minimum uslova" <https://beta.rs/content/193451-
    tadic-sds-spremna-da-bude-deo-liste-srbija-protiv-nasilja-uz-
    minimum-uslova> [Tadić: SDS is ready to be part of the list of
    'Serbia Against Violence' with minimum conditions]. /Novinska
    agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 2 November 2023. Retrieved 2 November 2023.
418. *^ <#cite_ref-419>* "Tadić: Aleksić nas obavestio da na listi
    'Srbija protiv nasilja' ipak nema mesta za SDS" <https://beta.rs/
    content/193513-tadic-aleksic-nas-obavestio-da-na-listi-srbija-
    protiv-nasilja-ipak-nema-mesta-za-sds> [Tadić: Aleksić informed us
    that there is no place for SDS on the list of 'Serbia Against
    Violence']. /Novinska agencija Beta/ (in Serbian). 3 November 2023.
    Retrieved 3 November 2023.
419. *^ <#cite_ref-420>* "SDS, DJB i pokret "Otete bebe" izlaze zajedno
    na izbore" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/sds-djb-i-pokret-
    otete-bebe-izlaze-zajedno-na-izbore/> [SDS, DJB, and movement
    "Stolen Babies" are taking part in the elections together]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 6 November 2023. Retrieved 6 November 2023.
420. *^ <#cite_ref-421>* "Koalicija Tadića i Radulovića predala potpise
    RIK-u" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/koalicija-tadica-i-
    radulovica-predala-potpise-rik-u/> [The coalition of Tadić and
    Radulović submitted their signatures to the RIK]. /N1/ (in Serbian).
    22 November 2023. Retrieved 23 November 2023.
421. *^ <#cite_ref-422>* "Dosta je bilo, SDS i udruženje "Otete bebe"
    predali RIK-u listu" <https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/
    105843/dosta-je-bilo-sds-i-udruzenje-otete-bebe-predali-rik-u-listu/
    vest> [Enough is Enough, SDS and the association "Stolen Babies"
    submitted their list to RIK]. /Euronews/ (in Serbian). 22 November
    2023. Retrieved 23 November 2023.
422. *^ <#cite_ref-423>* "Ruska stranka predala izbornu listu RIK-u"
    <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/ruska-stranka-rik/>
    [Russian Party submitted its electoral list to RIK]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). 25 November 2023. Retrieved 25 November 2023.
423. *^ <#cite_ref-424>* "RIK-u predata izborna lista "Čedomir Jovanović
    – Mora drugačije"" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/61276/
    rik-u-predata-izborna-lista-cedomir-jovanovic-mora-drugacije/vest>
    [The election list "Čedomir Jovanović – It must be different" has
    been submitted to RIK]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 25 November 2023.
    Retrieved 25 November 2023.
424. *^ <#cite_ref-425>* "Lista "Srbija na Zapadu-Da se struka pita"
    predala potpise za beogradske i parlamentarne izbore – industrijalac
    Vladimir Kovačević nosilac liste" <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/
    lista-srbija-na-zapadu-da-se-struka-pita-predala-potpise-za-
    beogradske-i-parlamentarne-izbore/> [The list "Serbia in the West –
    Experts Should Have A Say" submitted signatures for the Belgrade and
    parliamentary elections – industrialist Vladimir Kovačević is the
    leader of the list]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). 26 November 2023.
    Retrieved 26 November 2023.
425. *^ <#cite_ref-426>* "Listu 'Srbija na Zapadu–Da se struka pita'
    podržali akademici Dušan Teodorović i Velimir Radmilović" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/listu-srbija-na-zapadu-da-
    se-struka-pita-podrzali-akademici-dusan-teodorovic-i-velimir-
    radmilovic/> [The list "Serbia in the West – Experts Should Have A
    Say" was supported by academics Dušan Teodorović and Velimir
    Radmilović]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 10 November 2023. Retrieved 26
    November 2023.
426. *^ <#cite_ref-427>* "Grupa građana Mi Glas iz naroda predala RIK- u
    listu za izbore za Skupštinu Srbije" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/izbori-2023/grupa-gradjana-mi-glas-iz-naroda-predala-rik-u-
    listu-za-izbore-za-skupstinu-srbije/> [Citizens group We the voice
    from the people submitted RIK its electoral list for the elections
    for the Assembly of Serbia]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 26 November 2023.
    Retrieved 27 November 2023.
427. *^ <#cite_ref-428>* "Centralna konvencija SPS-a u Beogradu; NADA
    obišla srpske enklave na KiM" <https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/
    izbori-2023/5317023/centralna-konvencija-sps-a-u-beogradu-nada-
    obisla-srpske-enklave-na-kim.html> [SPS Central Convention in
    Belgrade; NADA visited Serbian enclaves in Kosovo and Metohija]. /
    Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). 26 November 2023.
    Retrieved 27 November 2023.
428. *^ <#cite_ref-429>* "Čedomir Jovanović kaže da je razgovarao sa
    Kurtijem: O Kosovu se mora reći istina" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/cedomir-jovanovic-tvrdi-da-ide-u-pristinu-na-sastanak-
    sa-kurtijem/> [Čedomir Jovanović says that he spoke with Kurti: The
    truth must be told about Kosovo]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 3 December
    2023. Retrieved 4 December 2023.
429. *^ <#cite_ref-430>* Multiple sources:
      * "Istraživanje Demostata: spoljno-političke orijentacije građana
        Srbije" <https://web.archive.org/web/20220921052046/https://
        demostat.rs/upload/Prezentacija%2029062022%20Demostat.pdf>
        [Demostat research: foreign policy orientations of Serbian
        citizens] (PDF) (in Serbian). Demostat. 29 June 2022. p. 22.
        Archived from the original <https://demostat.rs/upload/
        Prezentacija%2029062022%20Demostat.pdf> (PDF) on 21 September
        2022. Retrieved 10 January 2023.
      * "Srbija, leto 2022. – protivljenje uvođenju sankcija Rusiji
        porsalo sa 82,2 na 84 odsto. Članstvo srbije u NATO podržava 4,3
        odsto, a protivi mu se 88,1 odsto" <https://web.archive.org/web/
        20221108050501/http://www.nspm.rs/istrazivanja-javnog-mnjenja/
        srbija-leto-2022.-protivljenje-uvodjenju-sankcija-rusiji-
        poraslo-sa-822-na-84-odsto.html> [Serbia, summer 2022 –
        opposition to the introduction of sanctions against Russia
        increased from 82.2 to 84 percent. Serbia's membership in NATO
        is supported by 4.3 percent, while 88.1 percent oppose it] (in
        Serbian). Nova srpska politička misao. 27 July 2022. Archived
        from the original <http://www.nspm.rs/istrazivanja-javnog-
        mnjenja/srbija-leto-2022.-protivljenje-uvodjenju-sankcija-
        rusiji-poraslo-sa-822-na-84-odsto.html> on 8 November 2022.
        Retrieved 10 January 2023.
      * "SNS na 46,3 odsto, desnica u porastu: najnovije istraživanje
        "Faktor plusa" pokazalo i ovo: Neko treba da popuni prazninu
        nastalu u "proevropskoj" opoziciji!" <https://web.archive.org/
        web/20221106042406/https://www.blic.rs/vesti/politika/sns-
        na-463-odsto-desnica-u-porastu-najnovije-istrazivanje-faktor-
        plusa-pokazalo-i-ovo/cpgpg4t> [SNS at 46.3 percent, the right on
        the rise: the latest "Faktor Plus" opinion poll also showed
        this: Someone needs to fill the gap created in the "pro-
        European" opposition!]. /Blic/ (in Serbian). 25 October 2022.
        Archived from the original <https://www.blic.rs/vesti/politika/
        sns-na-463-odsto-desnica-u-porastu-najnovije-istrazivanje-
        faktor-plusa-pokazalo-i-ovo/cpgpg4t> on 6 November 2022.
        Retrieved 10 January 2023.
      * "Međunarodna politička situacija i javno mnjenje u Srbiji"
        <https://istrazivanja.rs/medjunarodna-politicka-situacija-i-
        javno-mnjenje-u-srbiji/> [International political situation and
        public opinion in Serbia] (in Serbian). Šta Srbija misli?. 22
        February 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
        20230222175343/https://istrazivanja.rs/medjunarodna-politicka-
        situacija-i-javno-mnjenje-u-srbiji/> from the original on 22
        February 2023. Retrieved 22 February 2023.
      * "Istraživanje javnog mnjenja: Koliko bi građana glasalo za
        vlast, koliko za organizatore protests" <https://n1info.rs/
        vesti/istrazivanje-javnog-mnjenja-koliko-bi-gradjana-glasalo-za-
        vlast-koliko-za-organizatore-protesta/> [Public opinion poll:
        How many citizens would vote for the government, how many for
        the protest organisers] (in Serbian). N1. 19 September 2023.
        Retrieved 19 September 2023.
      * "Stavovi građana Srbije i Beograda" <https://crta.rs/wp-content/
        uploads/2023/10/CRTA-Istrazivanje-javnog-menjenja-
        Spetembar-2023.pdf> [Stances of citizens of Serbia and Belgrade]
        (PDF). /CRTA/ (in Serbian). 16 October 2023. pp. 2, 9. Retrieved
        16 October 2023.
430. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:23_431-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    23_431-1> Valtner, Lidija (20 September 2023). "Zašto istraživanja
    javnog mnjenja sada treba uzimati sa dozom sumnje?" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/istrazivanje-javnog-mnjenja-rejting/>
    [Why should public opinion polls be taken with a grain of salt
    now?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 14 October 2023.
431. *^ <#cite_ref-432>* "Proevropski ili nacionalni: Koji blok je širi?"
    <https://nova.rs/emisije/proevropski-ili-nacionalni-koji-blok-je-
    siri/> [Pro-European or the national: which bloc is wider?]. /NOVA
    portal/ (in Serbian). 18 October 2023. Retrieved 18 October 2023.
432. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:24_433-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    24_433-1> "BIRODI: Mediji da ne objavljuju istraživanja javnog
    mnjenja ako se ne zna naručilac istraživanja" <https://www.danas.rs/
    vesti/drustvo/birodi-mediji-da-ne-objavljuju-istrazivanja-javnog-
    mnjenja-ako-se-ne-zna-narucilac-istrazivanja/> [BIRODI: The media
    should not publish public opinion surveys if the person who
    commissioned the survey is not known]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 26 July
    2023. Retrieved 14 October 2023.
433. *^ <#cite_ref-434>* "Srećko Mihailović: Istraživanja javnog mnjenja
    u Srbiji su uglavnom neprofesionalna i pristrasna" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/drustvo/srecko-mihailovic-istrazivanja-javnog-
    mnjenja-u-srbiji-su-uglavnom-neprofesionalna-i-pristrasna/> [Srećko
    Mihailović: Public opinion surveys in Serbia are mostly
    unprofessional and biased]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 7 July 2023.
    Retrieved 14 October 2023.
434. *^ <#cite_ref-435>* Živanović, Katarina (20 April 2022).
    "Gavrilović: Istraživači prolaze "toplog zeca" kada objave rezultate
    koji "žuljaju" vlast" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/drustvo/
    gavrilovic-istrazivaci-prolaze-toplog-zeca-kada-objave-rezultate-
    koji-zuljaju-vlast/> [Gavrilović: Researchers go through a "hot
    rabbit" when they publish results that "scald" the government]. /
    Danas/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 14 October 2023.
435. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-RIK_rokovi_436-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    RIK_rokovi_436-1> "RIK: Određeni rokovi za izborne radnje" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/rik-odredjeni-rokovi-za-izborne-radnje/>
    [RIK: Deadlines for electoral actions have been set]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 4 November 2023. Retrieved 9 November 2023.
436. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:48_437-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    48_437-1> "CeSID dosad zabeležio više od 50 nepravilnosti na
    izborima" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/cesid-dosad-
    zabelazio-vise-od-50-nepravilsnosti-na-izborima/> [So far, CeSID
    recorded more than 50 irregularities in the elections]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
437. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:58_438-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    58_438-1> "Serbia's ruling populists claim sweeping victory in
    election amid vote-rigging accusations" <https://
    www.theguardian.com/world/2023/dec/18/serbia-election-results-
    populist-party-victory-vote-rigging-accusations>. /The Guardian/. 18
    December 2023. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0261-3077 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0261-3077>. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
438. *^ <#cite_ref-439>* Kirby, Paul; Delauney, Guy (17 December 2023).
    "Serbia election: Vucic claims big election victory for ruling
    party" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-67742032>. /BBC News/.
    Retrieved 18 December 2023.
439. *^ <#cite_ref-440>* Vasović, Aleksandar (18 December 2023).
    "Serbia's ruling SNS set to win election, Vucic declares victory"
    <https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/serbians-vote-snap-election-
    ruling-party-set-secure-another-term-2023-12-17/>. /Reuters/.
    Retrieved 18 December 2023.
440. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:49_441-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    49_441-1> "Nedeljkov: Napadnuti posmatrači Crte i uništeno im vozilo
    u Odžacima" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/nedeljkov-
    napadnuti-posmatraci-crte-i-unisteno-im-vozilo-u-odzacima/>
    [Nedeljkov: CRTA observers attacked and their vehicle destroyed in
    Odžaci]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December
    2023.
441. *^ <#cite_ref-442>* "Porodično glasanje, pritisak na birače: CeSID
    objavio nepravilnosti od 14 do 17 časova" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/porodicno-glasanje-pritisak-na-birace-cesid-objavio-
    nepravilnosti-od-14-do-17-casova/> [Family voting, pressure on
    voters: CeSID announced irregularities from 14:00 to 17:00]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
442. *^ <#cite_ref-443>* "Parandilović: Odbornik SNS u kafani u Priboju
    prekraja izbornu volju građana" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    parandilovic-odbornik-sns-u-kafani-u-priboju-prekraja-izbornu-volju-
    gradjana-foto/> [Parandilović: Members of SNS in a pub in Priboj are
    destroying the electoral will of the citizens]. /N1/ (in Serbian).
    17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
443. *^ <#cite_ref-444>* Opačić, Ana (17 December 2023). "Birači iz
    Republike Srpske organizovano u Areni, odakle se preusmeravaju gde
    da glasaju" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/audio-video-biraci-
    iz-republike-srpske-organizovano-u-areni-odakle-se-preusmeravaju-
    gde-da-glasaju/> [Voters from Republika Srpska are organised in the
    Arena, from where they are redirected to where to vote]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). Retrieved 18 December 2023.
444. *^ <#cite_ref-445>* "Došla ova televizija N: Obezbeđenje objašnjava
    proceduru za glasanje u Areni za ljude iz BiH" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/izbori-2023/video-dosla-ova-televizija-n-obezbedjenje-
    objasnjava-proceduru-za-glasanje-u-areni-za-ljude-iz-bih/> ["This
    television N has arrived": Security explains the procedure for
    voting in the Arena for people from Bosnia and Herzegovina]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
445. *^ <#cite_ref-446>* "Pripadnici obezbeđenja u Areni izbacili članove
    RIK-a" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/statisti-statisti-
    pripadnici-obezbedjenja-u-areni-izbacili-clanove-rik-a/> [The
    members of the security in the Arena kicked out the members of the
    RIK]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
446. *^ <#cite_ref-447>* "Brnabić se oglasila povodom glasača iz
    Republike Srpske u Areni" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    brnabic-se-oglasila-povodom-glasaca-iz-republike-srpske-u-areni/>
    [Brnabić spoke about the voters from Republika Srpska in the
    Arena]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
447. *^ <#cite_ref-448>* Kuzmanović, Aleksandra (17 December 2023).
    ""Zabranjeno da neko ima prebivalište tamo gde ne živi": Profesor o
    biračima iz RS u Areni" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    zabranjeno-da-neko-ima-prebivaliste-tamo-gde-ne-zivi-profesor-o-
    biracima-iz-rs-u-areni/> ["It is forbidden for someone to have a
    residence where he does not live": Professor on voters from RS in
    Arena]. /N1/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 18 December 2023.
448. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:57_449-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    57_449-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:57_449-2> "ODIHR: Ozbiljne
    neregularnosti na izborima, predsednik doneo prednost jednoj listi"
    <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/izbori-rezultati-2023-odihr-
    srbija/> [ODIHR: Serious irregularities in the elections, the
    president favoured only one list]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 18 December
    2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
449. *^ <#cite_ref-450>* "Nemačko ministarstvo o izborima u Srbiji:
    Neprihvatljivo za zemlju sa statusom kandidata za EU" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/nemacko-ministarstvo-o-izborima-u-
    srbiji-neprihvatljivo-za-zemlju-sa-statusom-kandidata-za-eu/> [The
    German Ministry on the elections in Serbia: Unacceptable for a
    country with EU candidate status]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 18 December
    2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
450. *^ <#cite_ref-451>* "Šef posmatračke delegacije: Istina je šokantna,
    video sam listiće napravljene u kopirnici" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/sef-delegacije-parlamentarne-skupstine-se-istina-je-
    sokantna-video-sam-listice-napravljene-u-kopirnici/> [Head of the
    observation delegation: The truth is shocking, I saw ballots made in
    the copy shop]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 19 December 2023. Retrieved 20
    December 2023.
451. *^ <#cite_ref-452>* Psaledakis, Daphne; Singh, Kanishka (20 December
    2023). "EU, US urge Serbia to address concerns about electoral
    process" <https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/eu-us-urge-serbia-
    address-concerns-about-electoral-process-2023-12-19/>. /Reuters/.
    Retrieved 20 December 2023.
452. *^ <#cite_ref-453>* Bayer, Lili (18 December 2023). "Serbia's
    elections held under 'unjust conditions', say international
    observers" <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/dec/18/serbias-
    elections-under-unjust-conditions-say-international-observers>. /The
    Guardian/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0261-3077 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0261-3077>. Retrieved 20 December 2023.
453. *^ <#cite_ref-454>* "SAD: Pozivamo Srbiju da istraži navode o
    neregularnostima na izborima" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    sad-pozivamo-srbiju-da-istrazi-navode-o-neregularnostima-na-
    izborima/> [USA: We call on Serbia to investigate allegations of
    irregularities in the elections]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 19 December
    2023. Retrieved 20 December 2023.
454. *^ <#cite_ref-455>* "Američki senatori: Izbori u Srbiji ni slobodni
    ni fer" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/americki-senatori-
    izbori-u-srbiji-ni-slobodni-ni-fer/> [American senators: Elections
    in Serbia are neither free nor fair]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 20 December
    2023. Retrieved 20 December 2023.
455. *^ <#cite_ref-456>* "Šider: Brnabić širi dezinformacije o meni,
    napada posmatrače umesto da se pozabavi nepravilnostima" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/sider-brnabic-siri-dezinformacije-o-
    meni-napada-posmatrace-umesto-da-se-pozabavi-nepravilnostima/>
    [Schieder: Brnabić is spreading misinformation about me and is
    attacking observers instead of dealing with irregularities]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 22 December 2023. Retrieved 23 December 2023.
456. *^ <#cite_ref-457>* "Brnabić: Opozicija, CRTA i druge NVO pokušavaju
    da destabilizuju zemlju" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/
    65942/brnabic-opozicija-crta-i-druge-nvo-pokusavaju-da-
    destabilizuju-zemlju/vest> [Brnabić: The opposition, CRTA and other
    NGOs are trying to destabilize the country]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian).
    22 December 2023. Retrieved 23 December 2023.
457. *^ <#cite_ref-458>* "Evropski posmatrači o kritikama vlasti u
    Beogradu: Ovo pokazuje da smo pogodili tačku" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/izbori-2023/evropski-posmatraci-o-kritikama-vlasti-u-beogradu-
    ovo-pokazuje-da-smo-pogodili-tacku/> [European observers on
    criticism of the authorities in Belgrade: This shows that we have
    hit the spot]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 22 December 2023. Retrieved 23
    December 2023.
458. *^ <#cite_ref-459>* "RIK: Na vanrednim parlamentarnim izborima pravo
    glasa ima 6.500.666 birača" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    rik-na-vanrednim-parlamentarnim-izborima-pravo-glasa-ima-6-500-666-
    biraca/> [RIK: In the extraordinary parliamentary elections,
    6,500,666 voters have the right to vote]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 15
    December 2023. Retrieved 15 December 2023.
459. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:41_460-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    41_460-1> "Cesid objavio gde može da se glasa u inostranstvu: 81
    biračko mesto u 35 zemalja širom sveta" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/
    politika/izbori-2023/cesid-glasanje-u-inistranstvu/> [Cesid
    announced where you can vote abroad: 81 polling stations in 35
    countries around the world]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 27 November 2023.
    Retrieved 27 November 2023.
460. *^ <#cite_ref-461>* "Počelo štampanje glasačkih listića;
    Dimitrijević: Rekordan broj mesta za glasanje u inostranstvu"
    <https://www.rts.rs/lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5323145/stampanje-
    glasackih-listica-rik-.html> [Printing of ballots has begun,
    Dimitrijević: Record number of places to vote abroad]. /Radio
    Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 6 December 2023.
461. *^ <#cite_ref-462>* "Na kojim će se sve biračkim mestima ponoviti
    glasanje 30. decembra" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/na-
    kojim-ce-se-sve-birackim-mestima-ponoviti-glasanje-30-decembra/> [At
    which voting stations will the voting be repeated on December 30]. /
    N1/ (in Serbian). 20 December 2023. Retrieved 21 December 2023.
462. *^ <#cite_ref-463>* "IPSOS/CeSID: Projekcija rezultata
    parlamentarnih izbora" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    najnovije-vesti-izbori-2023-rezultati/> [IPSOS/CeSID: Projection of
    parliamentary election results]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 17 December
    2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
463. *^ <#cite_ref-464>* "CRTA objavila rezultate na osnovu 95 odsto
    obrađenog uzorka" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/crta-
    koalicija-oko-sns-osvojila-46-9-odsto/> [CRTA published results
    based on 95 percent of the processed sample]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 17
    December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
464. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:50_465-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    50_465-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:50_465-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-:50_465-3>
    "CeSID i IPSOS obradili 97,2 odsto uzorka – SNS-u 128 mandata, SPN-u
    65" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/cesid-i-ipsos-obradili-972-
    odsto-uzorka-sns-u-128-mandata-spn-u-65/> [CeSID and IPSOS processed
    97.2 percent of the sample – SNS 128 mandates, SPN 65]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 18 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
465. *^ <#cite_ref-466>* "Poslednji podaci RIK-a i PIK-a: SNS blizu 50
    odsto, Dveri i Zavetnici ispod cenzusa" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/poslednji-podaci-rik-a-i-pik-a-sns-blizu-50-odsto-dveri-
    i-zavetnici-ispod-cenzusa/> [Latest data from RIK and PIK: SNS close
    to 50 percent, Dveri and Oathkeepers are below the threshold]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 18 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
466. *^ <#cite_ref-467>* "RIK: SNS osvojio najviše glasova u
    inostranstvu, sledi "Srbija protiv nasilja"" <https://www.rts.rs/
    lat/vesti/izbori-2023/5332440/rik-glasanje-inostranstvo-
    rezultati.html> [RIK: SNS won the most votes abroad, followed by
    Serbia Against Violence]. /Radio Television of Serbia/ (in Serbian).
    21 December 2023. Retrieved 21 December 2023.
467. *^ <#cite_ref-468>* "Vladimir Dimitrijević: Izborni rezultati moći
    će uživo da se prate" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/
    65155/vladimir-dimitrijevic-izborni-rezultati-moci-ce-uzivo-da-se-
    prate/vest> [Vladimir Dimitrijević: The election results will be
    able to be followed live]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 17 December 2023.
    Retrieved 18 December 2023.
468. *^ <#cite_ref-469>* "Rezultati izbora" <https://
    www.rik.parlament.gov.rs/542645/rezultati/> [Election results]. /
    Republic Electoral Commission/ (in Serbian). 17 December 2023.
    Retrieved 17 December 2023.
469. *^ <#cite_ref-470>* "Konačan izveštaj RIK-a: Broj glasova koje su
    osvojile liste i koliko će poslanika imati u Skupštini" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/konacan-izvestaj-rik-a-broj-glasova-koje-su-
    osvojile-liste-i-koliko-ce-poslanika-imati-u-skupstini/>. N1. 12
    January 2024. Retrieved 12 January 2024.
470. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:47_471-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    47_471-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:47_471-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-:47_471-3>
    Howey, William (5 December 2023). "Serbia revives lithium mining
    plans with EU agreement" <https://services.eiu.com/serbia-revives-
    lithium-mining-plans-with-eu-agreement/>. /Economist Intelligence
    Unit/. Retrieved 9 December 2023.
471. *^ <#cite_ref-472>* "Protesti opozicije pred zgradom RIK-a, traže
    poništavanje izbora u Beogradu" <https://balkans.aljazeera.net/news/
    balkan/liveblog/2023/12/18/rik-na-osnovu-7-847-birackih-mesta-
    srbija-ne-sme-da-stane-4684-odsto-glasova> [Protest of the
    opposition in front of the RIK building, they are demanding the
    annulling of the elections in Belgrade]. /Al Jazeera/ (in Serbian).
    18 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
472. *^ <#cite_ref-473>* "Marinika Tepić i Miroslav Aleksić najavili
    štrajk glađu do poništenja beogradskih izbora" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/marinika-tepic-i-miroslav-
    aleksic-najavili-strajk-gladju-do-ponistenja-beogradskih-izbora/>
    [Marinika Tepić and Miroslav Aleksić announced a hunger strike until
    the annulment of the Belgrade elections]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). 18
    December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
473. *^ <#cite_ref-474>* "Aleksić: Tražićemo poništavanje izbora na svim
    nivoima" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/aleksic-trazicemo-
    ponistavanje-izbora-na-svim-nivoima/> [Aleksić: We will ask for the
    annulment of the elections at all levels]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 20
    December 2023. Retrieved 21 December 2023.
474. *^ <#cite_ref-475>* Milenković, Mirjana R. (21 December 2023). "Koje
    stranke opozicije još podržavaju ponavljanje izbora?" <https://
    www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/koje-stranke-opozicije-
    podrzavaju-ponavljanje-izbora/> [Which opposition parties still
    support repeating the elections?]. /Danas/ (in Serbian). Retrieved
    21 December 2023.
475. *^ <#cite_ref-476>* ""Pojačaćemo borbu još više": Štrajku glađu
    pridružuju se još dve poslanice" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/pojacacemo-borbu-jos-vise-strajku-gladju-pridruzuju-se-
    jos-dve-poslanice/> ["We will strengthen the fight even more": two
    more MPs join the hunger strike]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 21 December
    2023. Retrieved 21 December 2023.
476. *^ <#cite_ref-477>* "U štrajk glađu stupaju i Janko Veselinović i
    Željko Veselinović" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/u-strajk-
    gladju-stupaju-i-janko-veselinovic-i-zeljko-veselinovic/> [Janko
    Veselinović and Željko Veselinović also go on hunger strike]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 22 December 2023. Retrieved 23 December 2023.
477. *^ <#cite_ref-478>* "Još jedan protest ispred RIK-a, u nedelju
    ističe rok za poništavanje izbora, u suprotnom – blokade" <https://
    www.glasamerike.net/a/balkan-srbija-izbori-protest-republicka-
    izborna-komisija-strajk-gladju/7410092.html> [Another protest in
    front of the RIK, the deadline for annulment of the election expires
    on Sunday, otherwise – blockades]. /Voice of America/ (in Serbian).
    23 December 2023. Retrieved 24 December 2023.
478. *^ <#cite_ref-479>* "Boško Obradović podneo ostavku na mesto
    predsednika Dveri" <https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/109062/
    bosko-obradovic-podneo-ostavku-na-mesto-predsednika-dveri/vest>
    [Boško Obradović resigns as president of Dveri]. /Euronews/ (in
    Serbian). 23 December 2023. Retrieved 23 December 2023.
479. *^ <#cite_ref-480>* "Svi članovi Predsedništva Narodne stranke
    podneli ostavke" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/svi-clanovi-
    predsednistva-narodne-stranke-podneli-ostavke/> [All members of the
    presidency of the People's Party resigned from their positions]. /
    N1/ (in Serbian). 23 December 2023. Retrieved 23 December 2023.
480. *^ <#cite_ref-481>* "Brnabić: "Srbija ne sme da stane" ima 47,1
    posto, imaćemo više od 125 poslanika" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/brnabic-srbija-ne-sme-da-stane-ima-471-posto-na-osnovu-
    uzorka-od-50-procenata/> [Brnabić: "Serbia must not stop" has 47.1
    percent, we will have more than 125 deputies]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 17
    December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
481. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:51_482-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    51_482-1> "Dačić: Potrebno je naći novog lidera SPS" <https://
    n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/dacic-potrebno-je-naci-novog-lidera-sps/
    > [Dacic: It is necessary to find a new SPS leader]. /N1/ (in
    Serbian). 17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
482. *^ <#cite_ref-483>* "Dodik čestitao Vučiću: Ponosan sam na sve iz RS
    koji su glasali" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/dodik-
    cestitao-vucicu-ponosan-sam-na-sve-iz-rs-koji-su-glasali/> [Dodik
    congratulated Vučić: I am proud of everyone from RS who voted]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 18 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
483. *^ <#cite_ref-484>* "Mađarska predsednica čestitala Vučiću i SNS na
    "velikoj izbornoj pobedi"" <https://www.tanjug.rs/izbori-2023/vesti/
    65230/madarska-predsednica-cestitala-vucicu-i-sns-na-velikoj-
    izbornoj-pobedi/vest> [The Hungarian president congratulated Vučić
    and SNS on the "great election victory"]. /Tanjug/ (in Serbian). 18
    December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
484. *^ <#cite_ref-485>* "Vučić: Sastavljamo važno pismo o najbrutalnijem
    mešanju jedne važne zemlje u izbore u Srbiji" <https://n1info.rs/
    vesti/vucic-sastavljamo-vazno-pismo-o-najbrutalnijem-mesanju-jedne-
    vazne-zemlje-u-izbore-u-srbiji/> [Vučić: We are writing an important
    letter about the most brutal interference of an important country in
    the elections in Serbia]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 21 December 2023.
    Retrieved 21 December 2023.
485. *^ <#cite_ref-486>* "Nestorović za N1: Nećemo sarađivati ni sa
    jednima ni sa drugima" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/
    nestorovic-niko-nam-nije-davao-sanse-ali-smo-postigli-veliki-uspeh/>
    [Nestorović for N1: We will not cooperate with any of them]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 17 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
486. *^ <#cite_ref-487>* "Izbori u Srbiji, dan posle: Najveće iznenađenje
    Nestorović" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/izbori-
    u-srbiji-dan-posle-najvece-iznenadjenje-nestorovic/> [Elections in
    Serbia, the day after: Nestorović's biggest surprise]. /Danas/ (in
    Serbian). 18 December 2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
487. *^ <#cite_ref-488>* "Pastor: Rezultat kakav smo želeli, koalicija
    samo sa SNS" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/pastor-rezultat-
    kakav-smo-zeleli-koalicija-samo-sa-sns/> [Pastor: We got the result
    we wanted, coalition only with SNS]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 18 December
    2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
488. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:56_489-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    56_489-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:56_489-2> "Bešić: Naše društvo
    podeljenije nego pre izbora, neuspeh desnice jedan od glavnih
    utisaka nakon glasanja" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/izbori-2023/besic-
    nase-drustvo-podeljenije-nego-pre-izbora-neuspeh-desnice-jedan-od-
    glavnih-utisaka-nakon-glasanja/> [Bešić: Our society is more divided
    than before the election, the failure of the right wing one of the
    main impressions after the vote]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 17 December
    2023. Retrieved 18 December 2023.
489. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:07_490-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    07_490-1> "Dačićeva čestitka SNS-u: Saradnja i posle pobede na
    decembarskim izborima" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/dacic-cestitao-
    sns-15-godina-od-osnivanja/> [Dačić's congratulations to SNS:
    Cooperation even after the victory in the December elections]. /N1/
    (in Serbian). 21 October 2023. Retrieved 23 October 2023.
490. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:111_491-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    111_491-1> "Ivica Dačić: Najbolje rešenje za Srbiju – Vučić
    predsednik, Dačić premijer; Sve podseća na drugi krug izbora 2000.
    godine" <https://insajder.net/teme/ivica-dacic-najbolje-resenje-za-
    srbiju-vucic-predsednik-dacic-premijer-sve-podseca-na-drugi-krug-
    izbora-2000-godine> [Ivica Dačić: The best solution for Serbia –
    President Vučić, Prime Minister Dačić; Everything is reminiscent of
    the second round of the 2000 election]. /Insajder/ (in Serbian). 29
    November 2023. Retrieved 2 December 2023.
491. *^ <#cite_ref-492>* "Dačić: Ako SNS ne želi, SPS ne mora da bude u
    vlasti, ali od nas nema pouzdanijih" <https://www.rtv.rs/sr_lat/
    izbori-2023/parlamentarni-izbori/dacic-ako-sns-ne-zeli-sps-ne-mora-
    da-bude-u-vlasti-ali-od-nas-nema-pouzdanijih_1498336.html> [Dacic:
    If SNS doesn't want to, SPS doesn't have to be in power, but there
    are none more reliable than us]. /Radio Television of Vojvodina/ (in
    Serbian). 2 December 2023. Retrieved 2 December 2023.
492. *^ <#cite_ref-493>* "Snežana Paunović: SPS odlučila da na izbore ide
    sa dosadašnjim partnerima, posle izbora sa SNS" <https://
    www.tanjug.rs/srbija/politika/56752/snezana-paunovic-sps-odlucila-
    da-na-izbore-ide-sa-dosadasnjim-partnerima-posle-izbora-sa-sns/vest>
    [Snežana Paunović: SPS decided to go to the elections with its
    previous partners, after the elections with the SNS]. /Tanjug/ (in
    Serbian). 30 October 2023. Retrieved 2 December 2023.
493. *^ <#cite_ref-494>* "Toma Fila: SPS će posle izbora biti u koaliciji
    sa SNS-om" <https://www.danas.rs/vesti/politika/izbori-2023/toma-
    fila-sps-ce-posle-izbora-biti-u-koaliciji-sa-sns-om/> [Toma Fila:
    SPS will be in a coalition with SNS after the elections]. /Danas/
    (in Serbian). 27 November 2023. Retrieved 2 December 2023.
494. *^ <#cite_ref-495>* "Balint Pastor: Imamo jak tim, cilj je pet
    mandata, nastavljamo saradnju sa SNS" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/balint-pastor-imamo-jak-tim-cilj-je-pet-mandata-
    nastavljamo-saradnju-sa-sns/> [Balint Pastor: We have a strong team,
    the goal is five mandates, we want to continue cooperation with
    SNS]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 4 December 2023. Retrieved 4 December 2023.
495. *^ <#cite_ref-496>* "Vučić kaže da Srpska napredna stranka neće
    formirati vladu sa radikalima" <https://www.slobodnaevropa.org/a/
    vucic-seselj-koalicija-srbija-vlada-radikali/32666309.html> [Vučić
    says that the Serbian Progressive Party will not form a government
    with Radicals]. /Radio Free Europe/ (in Serbian). 1 November 2023.
    Retrieved 2 December 2023.
496. *^ <#cite_ref-497>* Savić, Danilo (3 December 2023). "Vučiću se
    komplikuje situacija pred izbore i panika je sve veća: Naprednjaci
    imaju samo jednog sigurnog saveznika" <https://nova.rs/vesti/
    politika/vucicu-se-komplikuje-situacija-pred-izbore-i-panika-je-sve-
    veca-naprednjaci-imaju-samo-jednog-sigurnog-saveznika/> [The
    situation before the elections is getting complicated for Vučić and
    the panic is growing: the Progressives have only one reliable
    ally]. /NOVA portal/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 4 December 2023.
497. *^ <#cite_ref-498>* ""Logične trzavice" između SNS i SPS: Pa tako
    Brnabić poredi Ružića s Đilasom" <https://n1info.rs/vesti/
    izbori-2023/logicne-trzavice-izmedju-sns-i-sps-pa-tako-brnabic-
    poredi-ruzica-s-djilasom/> ["Logical conflicts" between SNS and SPS:
    That's how Brnabić compares Ružić to Đilas]. /N1/ (in Serbian). 5
    December 2023. Retrieved 6 December 2023.
498. *^ <#cite_ref-499>* "Miloš Vučević za Euronews Srbija: Građani
    biraju između Vučića i Đilasa, nemamo garancije da SPS neće
    promeniti stranu" <https://www.euronews.rs/srbija/politika/107222/
    milos-vucevic-za-euronews-srbija-gradani-biraju-izmedu-vucica-i-
    dilasa-nemamo-garancije-da-sps-nece-promeniti-stranu/vest> [Miloš
    Vučević for Euronews Serbia: Citizens will choose between Vučić and
    Đilas, we have no guarantee that the SPS will not change sides]. /
    Euronews/ (in Serbian). 6 December 2023. Retrieved 7 December 2023.
499. *^ <#cite_ref-500>* Slavković, Stefan (4 December 2023). "Ko to tamo
    u SPS-u peva protiv Vučića: Predizborna varničenja partnera iz
    vlasti" <https://www.nin.rs/politika/vesti/41728/ko-to-tamo-u-sps-u-
    peva-protiv-vucica-predizborna-varnicenja-partnera-iz-vlasti/vest>
    [Who is that in the SPS singing against Vučić: Pre-election sparks
    of partners from the government]. /NIN/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 7
    December 2023.
500. *^ <#cite_ref-501>* Jelovac, Jelena (6 December 2023). "Ivica Dačić
    se pere, a Vučić nastavlja da ga ponižava na svakom koraku"
    <https://nova.rs/vesti/politika/ivica-dacic-se-pere-a-vucic-
    nastavlja-da-ga-ponizava-na-svakom-koraku/> [Ivica Dačić washes
    himself, and Vučić continues to humiliate him at every step]. /NOVA
    portal/ (in Serbian). Retrieved 7 December 2023.


    External links

  * Republic Electoral Commission <https://www.rik.parlament.gov.rs/>

