  2024 Taiwanese presidential election

Contributors to Wikimedia projects
67–85 minut
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2024 Taiwanese presidential election
------------------------------------------------------------------------
← 2020 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_Taiwanese_presidential_election> 	*13 January 2024* 	/2028/ →

Registered	19,548,531
Turnout	71.86% (Decrease3.04pp)
  	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Lai_Ching-
te_election_infobox.jpg> 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Hou_Yu-
ih_election_infobox.jpg> 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
%E6%9F%AF%E6%96%87%E5%93%B2_IMG_9322-1_(14300234412)_(cropped_2).jpg>
Nominee 	*Lai Ching-te <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te>* 	
Hou Yu-ih <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hou_Yu-ih> 	Ko Wen-je <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je>
Party 	DPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party>
	KMT <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang> 	TPP <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_People%27s_Party>
Running mate 	*Hsiao Bi-khim <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hsiao_Bi-
khim>* 	Jaw Shaw-kong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaw_Shaw-kong> 	
Cynthia Wu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynthia_Wu>
Popular vote 	*5,586,019* 	4,671,021 	3,690,466
Percentage 	*40.05%* 	33.49% 	26.46%

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:ROC_2024_Presidential_Election_County_level.svg>

Results by county-level unitsResults by township-level unitsShow all

------------------------------------------------------------------------
*President before election*

Tsai Ing-wen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsai_Ing-wen>
DPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party>

	*Elected President*

Lai Ching-te <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te>
DPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party>

Presidential elections were held in Taiwan <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Taiwan> on 13 January 2024 as part of the 2024 general elections
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Taiwanese_general_election>.^[1]
<#cite_note-1> ^[2] <#cite_note-2> Tsai Ing-wen <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsai_Ing-wen> of the Democratic Progressive Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party> (DPP), the
incumbent president of the Republic of China <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/President_of_the_Republic_of_China>, was ineligible for reelection
due to term limits. As such, the DPP nominated Vice President Lai Ching-
te <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te>, who had secured the
party chairmanship <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2023_Democratic_Progressive_Party_chairmanship_by-election> by
acclamation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acclamation> in March 2023.
He selected Hsiao Bi-khim <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hsiao_Bi-khim>,
the then-Representative to the United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/
Taipei_Economic_and_Cultural_Representative_Office_in_the_United_States>, as his running mate. Lai was elected president with a plurality of 40.05% and is scheduled to be inaugurated on 20 May 2024.^[3] <#cite_note-3> ^[4] <#cite_note-4> ^[5] <#cite_note-5>

The opposition Kuomintang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang>
(KMT) nominated the incumbent New Taipei <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
New_Taipei_City> mayor Hou Yu-ih <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hou_Yu-
ih> as their candidate for president in May 2023. In November, Hou chose
the former Legislative Yuan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Legislative_Yuan> member Jaw Shaw-kong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Jaw_Shaw-kong> to be his running mate. The Taiwan People's Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_People%27s_Party> (TPP) nominated
Ko Wen-je <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je>, its leader, the
former Mayor of Taipei <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taipei>, who in
turn chose Legislative Yuan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Legislative_Yuan> member Cynthia Wu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Cynthia_Wu> as his running mate. Despite previously saying he would
support Hou's nomination, businessman Terry Gou <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Gou> declared his own independent bid in
September 2023, before ultimately dropping out in November. Although the
KMT and TPP had initially agreed to field a joint ticket in November
2023, the two sides were unable to reach a final agreement, and each
announced their own vice presidential candidate on the last day of
registration.

This presidential election had a turnout <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Voter_turnout> rate of 71.86%, which was a 3.04pp <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percentage_point> reduction from the 2020 election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_Taiwanese_presidential_election>.
This marked the first time since the 2000 election <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2000_Taiwanese_presidential_election> that the
winning candidate obtained less than 50% of the vote, and the first time
that a party won more than two consecutive presidential elections since
direct elections were introduced in 1996 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
1996_Taiwanese_presidential_election>.


    Background[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=1>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
%E8%94%A1%E8%8B%B1%E6%96%87%E5%AE%98%E6%96%B9%E5%85%83%E9%A6%96%E8%82%96%E5%83%8F%E7%85%A7.png>
Tsai Ing-wen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsai_Ing-wen>, the incumbent
President of the Republic of China (Taiwan), was ineligible to seek re-
election after serving two terms.

Tsai Ing-wen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsai_Ing-wen> of the
Democratic Progressive Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Progressive_Party> (DPP) became the first female president
after winning the 2016 presidential election <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/2016_Taiwanese_presidential_election>, defeating KMT <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang> nominee Eric Chu <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_Chu>. She won a second term in 2020 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_Taiwanese_presidential_election> and will
serve until May 20, 2024.^[6] <#cite_note-6> Tsai resigned as party
chairperson after the DPP suffered losses in the 2022 Taiwanese local
elections <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2022_Taiwanese_local_elections>. She was replaced in an acting capacity
by Chen Chi-mai <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chen_Chi-mai>.^[7]
<#cite_note-7> Tsai's Vice President Lai Ching-te ultimately became the
party chairperson by acclamation in late 2022.^[8] <#cite_note-8>


      Qualifications and procedure[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=2>]

Presidential and vice presidential candidates are elected on the same
ticket using first-past-the-post voting <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
First-past-the-post_voting>. This will be the eighth direct election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Direct_election> of the president and
vice president, the posts having previously been indirectly elected
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indirect_election> by the National
Assembly <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
National_Assembly_(Republic_of_China)> until 1996. According to the
constitution <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Additional_Articles_of_the_Constitution_of_the_Republic_of_China>, Tsai,
having served two terms, is term-limited from office. Under Article 22
of the Presidential and Vice Presidential Election and Recall Act, only
the Democratic Progressive Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Progressive_Party> (DPP), Kuomintang <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang> (KMT), Taiwan People's Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_People%27s_Party> (TPP), and New Power
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Power_Party> (NPP), having
received more than five percent of the total vote in either the last
presidential or legislative election, are eligible to contest the
election.^[/citation needed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Wikipedia:Citation_needed>/]

Candidates register with the Central Election Commission <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Election_Commission_(Taiwan)>. Under
Article 23, independent candidates and smaller parties are also eligible
to contest, registering as the candidates for President and Vice
President by the way of joint signature shall, within five days after
the public notice for election is issued, apply to the Central Election
Commission to be the presentees recommended by way of joint signature
and to receive a list of joint signers, and pay a deposit of
NT$1,000,000. If the number of joint signers reaches 1.5% of the total
electors in the latest Presidential and Vice Presidential Election
within the time limit, which is 45 days under normal circumstances or 25
days in case of a by-election or a reelection, the presentees will be
allowed to proceed with contesting in the election after the joint
signature documents are examined.^[9] <#cite_note-9> For the 2024
presidential election, the number of signatures required for independent
candidates was approximately 290,000.^[10] <#cite_note-10> The complete
petition was to be submitted between 13 and 17 September 2023, and the
signature collection period followed from 17 September to 2 November
2023.^[11] <#cite_note-11> Presidential candidacies were formally
registered between 20 and 24 November 2023.^[12] <#cite_note-12> Lots
for ballot positioning were drawn on 11 December; the Taiwan People's
Party ticket was to be listed first, followed by the Democratic
Progressive Party, then the Kuomintang.^[13] <#cite_note-
lotspresentations-13>


      Timetable[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=3>]

Key Dates
Date 	Event
15 March 2023 	The Democratic Progressive Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party> (DPP) officially
nominates vice president Lai Ching-te <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Lai_Ching-te> as the party's presidential nominee.
8 May 2023 	The Taiwan People's Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Taiwan_People%27s_Party> (TPP) officially nominates former Taipei mayor
Ko Wen-je <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je> as the party's
presidential nominee.
17 May 2023 	The Kuomintang <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang>
Party (KMT) officially nominates New Taipei mayor Hou Yu-ih <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hou_Yu-ih> as the party's presidential nominee.
28 August 2023 	Businessman Terry Gou <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Terry_Gou> declares his candidacy for the presidency as an independent.
12 September-4 December 2023 	Accepting applications for the election of
the president and vice president and registration of electors who return
to the country to exercise their right to vote.
14 September 2023 	Terry Gou selects actress Lai Pei-hsia as his running
mate.
13 November 2023 	Gou qualifies to run in the presidential election.
13 November 2023 	The KMT and TPP agree to use polling to determine the
formation of a joint-ticket.
14 November 2023 	Announcement of the signature results of the
presidential and vice presidential election.
18 November 2023 	The KMT and TPP fail to form a unity ticket by their
own deadline.
20 November 2023 	The Lai-Hsiao DPP ticket is formed, and formally
register at the Central Election Commission.
24 November 2023 	Terry Gou withdraws from the election.
24 November 2023 	Deadline for presidential candidate registration; the
KMT and TPP file separate tickets.
20, 26 and 28 December 2023 	3 sessions of policy presentation forum
organized by Central Election Commission for presidential
candidates.^[14] <#cite_note-PolicyForumCEC-14> ^[15] <#cite_note-
PolicyForumRTI-15> ^[16] <#cite_note-PolicyForumRTIOld-16> ^[17]
<#cite_note-17>
22 December 2023 	Policy presentation forum organized by Central
Election Commission for vice-president candidates.^[14] <#cite_note-
PolicyForumCEC-14> ^[15] <#cite_note-PolicyForumRTI-15> ^[16]
<#cite_note-PolicyForumRTIOld-16>
30 December 2023 	Presidential debate featuring all three candidates,
jointly organized by 11 Taiwanese media corporations and hosted at
Public Television Service <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Public_Television_Service> (PTS) studio.^[18] <#cite_note-DebateCNA-18>
1 January 2024 	Vice presidential debate organized jointly by 11
Taiwanese media corporations and hosted at PTS studio.^[18] <#cite_note-
DebateCNA-18>
13 January 2024 	Voting was held from 08:00 to 16:00, resulting in Lai
Ching-te winning the election.^[19] <#cite_note-19>
20 May 2024 	Lai Ching-te and Hsiao Bi-khim will be inaugurated as
president and vice president, respectively.


    Nominations[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=4>]


      Democratic Progressive Party[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=5>]

Incumbent president, two-time Democratic Progressive Party (DPP)
presidential nominee, and former Chair of the DPP Tsai Ing-wen <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsai_Ing-wen> is ineligible to run, having
completed two consecutive terms. Tsai resigned as DPP Chair in 2022,
following the party's poor performance in the local elections <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Taiwanese_local_elections> of that year.^[20]
<#cite_note-20> After Tsai's resignation, Vice President Lai Ching-te
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te> (also known as William
Lai^[21] <#cite_note-21> ) was unanimously elected <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Democratic_Progressive_Party_chairmanship_by-
election> to succeed her as Chair of the DPP.^[22] <#cite_note-22> Lai
was previously selected to be Tsai's running mate after she defeated him
in the 2020 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_Taiwanese_presidential_election> primary.^[23] <#cite_note-23> No
primary was held, and Lai Ching-te, being the only individual to
register in the party's presidential primary, is the nominee of the
Democratic Progressive Party.^[24] <#cite_note-24> ^[25] <#cite_note-25>
^[26] <#cite_note-26>

In November 2023, it was reported that Lai was considering selecting
Hsiao Bi-khim <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hsiao_Bi-khim> (also known
as Louise Hsiao), Taiwan's representative to the United States <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Taipei_Economic_and_Cultural_Representative_Office_in_the_United_States>, as his running mate.^[27] <#cite_note-27> Hsiao resigned from her position as US representative (de facto <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_facto> ambassador) and returned to Taiwan on 19 November.^[28] <#cite_note-28> Lai officially named Hsiao as the election running mate on the same day.^[29] <#cite_note-29> Upon selecting Hsiao, Lai called his new running mate "a warrior for democracy" with whom he shared a common vision for Taiwan. Lai's decision to have Hsiao as his running mate was seen as a nod to the importance between Taiwan's relationship with the US. The Lai-Hsiao ticket formally registered at the Central Election Commission <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Election_Commission_(Taiwan)> on 20 November 2023.^[30] <#cite_note-30>


        Nominees[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=6>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party>

2024 Democratic Progrssive Party ticket
Lai Ching-te <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te> 	Hsiao Bi-khim
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hsiao_Bi-khim>
/*for President*/ 	/*for Vice President*/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
%E5%89%AF%E7%B8%BD%E7%B5%B1%E8%B3%B4%E6%B8%85%E5%BE%B7%E5%AE%98%E6%96%B9%E8%82%96%E5%83%8F.jpg>

	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Hsiao_Bi-khim_(altered).jpg>

Vice President of the Republic of China (Taiwan) <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vice_President_of_the_Republic_of_China>
(2020–2024) 	Representative to the United States <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Taipei_Economic_and_Cultural_Representative_Office_in_the_United_States>
(2020–2023)


      Kuomintang[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=7>]

Hou Yu-ih <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hou_Yu-ih>, the Mayor of New
Taipei <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_New_Taipei> since 2018,
was drafted by the Kuomintang (KMT) on 17 May 2023 to be its nominee for
the presidency.^[31] <#cite_note-31> Hou faced opposition from Foxconn
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foxconn> founder Terry Gou <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Gou>, who had earlier stated that he would
support Hou.^[32] <#cite_note-32> On 24 November 2023, the Kuomintang
named former legislator Jaw Shaw-kong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Jaw_Shaw-kong> as its vice presidential candidate.^[33] <#cite_note-33>


        Nominees[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=8>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang>

2024 Kuomingtang ticket
Hou Yu-ih <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hou_Yu-ih> 	Jaw Shaw-kong
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaw_Shaw-kong>
/*for President*/ 	/*for Vice President*/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
%E4%BE%AF%E5%8F%8B%E5%AE%9C%E5%B8%82%E9%95%B7%E8%82%96%E5%83%8F.jpg>

	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Jaw_Shaw-kong_Cropped.png>

Mayor of New Taipei <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_New_Taipei>
(2018–present) 	former Member of the Legislative Yuan <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Member_of_the_Legislative_Yuan>
(1987–1991, 1993–1994)


      Taiwan People's Party[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=9>]

Ko Wen-je <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je>, being the only
individual to register in the party's presidential primary, is the
nominee of the Taiwan People's Party (TPP).^[34] <#cite_note-34> ^[35]
<#cite_note-35> On 24 November 2023, Ko selected Cynthia Wu <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynthia_Wu>, current legislator since November
2022, as his running mate.^[36] <#cite_note-36>


        Nominees[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=10>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_People%27s_Party>

2024 Taiwan People's ticket
Ko Wen-je <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je> 	Cynthia Wu
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynthia_Wu>
/*for President*/ 	/*for Vice President*/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
%E6%9F%AF%E6%96%87%E5%93%B2_IMG_9322-1_(14300234412)_(cropped_2).jpg>

	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
%E5%90%B3%E6%AC%A3%E7%9B%88%E8%82%96%E5%83%8F.jpg>

Mayor of Taipei <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Taipei>
(2014–2022) 	Member of the Legislative Yuan <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Member_of_the_Legislative_Yuan>
(2022–present)


      Other parties and independents[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=11>]

All independent and minor party candidates needed a minimum of 290,000
signatures to register with the Central Election Commission <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Election_Commission_(Taiwan)>.^[37]
<#cite_note-auto-37>


        Withdrawn candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=12>]

Billionaire businessman Terry Gou <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Terry_Gou>, who founded the global technology manufacturing company
Foxconn <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foxconn> in 1974, declared his
own presidential run as an independent candidate on 28 August 2023.^[38]
<#cite_note-38> This was despite previously stating he would support
Kuomintang nominee Hou Yu-ih. The KMT described Gou's announcement as
'deeply regrettable'.^[39] <#cite_note-39>  Lai Ching-te welcomed Gou's
entrance into the race, saying he would be happy to take on the
challenge.^[40] <#cite_note-40> Gou was the first of the mainstream
candidates to announce his running mate; he selected actress Lai Pei-
hsia <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lai_Pei-
hsia&action=edit&redlink=1> [zh <https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/
%E8%B3%B4%E4%BD%A9%E9%9C%9E>] (otherwise known as Tammy Lai) as his
running mate on 14 September.^[41] <#cite_note-41> Lai had previously
played a fictional Taiwanese presidential candidate on a Chinese-
language Netflix series, Wave Makers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Wave_Makers>.^[42] <#cite_note-42> Gou's campaign was mired by
allegations that it was buying signatures.^[43] <#cite_note-43> By
November 2023, at least 20 separate investigations into fraudulent
practices and signature forgeries were opened.^[44] <#cite_note-44> 7
people were arrested in what was described as a 'signature-buying
scheme' a few weeks earlier.^[37] <#cite_note-auto-37> Gou denied these
allegations, and claimed that individuals who were buying signatures
were acting on their own accord and were not part of his official
campaign. Gou submitted his signatures on 1 November 2023.^[45]
<#cite_note-45> On 13 November, over 900,000 of Gou's submitted
signatures were validated by the election commission, qualifying him to
run the presidential election.^[46] <#cite_note-46> Amidst the deadline
to register with the Central Election Commission, Gou released a
statement on 24 November dropping out of the race.^[47] <#cite_note-
Gou_dropout-47> In a statement, Gou said "I'm dropping out, but my
aspirations live on."^[48] <#cite_note-48>  He did not endorse a
candidate.^[49] <#cite_note-49>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician>

2024 Independent politician ticket
Terry Gou <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Gou> 	Lai Pei-hsia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lai_Pei-
hsia&action=edit&redlink=1>
/*for President*/ 	/*for Vice President*/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:TerryGou_(cropped).jpg>

	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
12%EF%BC%8F5_%E2%89%8B_%E8%B3%B4%E4%BD%A9%E9%9C%9E_%E2%89%8B_%E3%80%8A%E8%BD%89%E5%BF%B5%E7%9A%84%E5%8A%9B%E9%87%8F%E3%80%8B%E6%96%B0%E6%9B%B8%E5%88%86%E4%BA%AB%E6%9C%83%EF%BC%8C%E5%8F%B0%E4%B8%AD%E5%A0%B4(cropped).jpg>

Founder and CEO of Foxconn <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foxconn>
(1974–2019) 	Actress, singer, writer


          Other withdrawn candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
          index.php?
          title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=13>]

  * *Wang Chien-shien <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wang_Chien-shien>*
    (independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Independent_politician>), President of Control Yuan <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_Yuan> (2008–2014)^[50] <#cite_note-50>
  * *Su Huan-chih <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Su_Huan-chih>* (Taiwan
    Renewal Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_Renewal_Party>),
    Tainan County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tainan_County>
    Magistrate (2001–2010)


        Disqualified candidates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
        index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=14>]

Nine of ten third-party or independent presidential tickets did not meet
the signature petition requirements set by the Central Election
Commission, and were disqualified from the election. Including Gou, only
five presidential candidates and their running mates attempted to submit
signatures. The rest are as follows:^[51] <#cite_note-51>

  * *Chen Mei-fei <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chen_Mei-
    fei&action=edit&redlink=1> [zh <https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    %E9%99%B3%E7%BE%8E%E5%A6%83>]* and Wu Chao-sheng (巫超勝) 256,773
    signatures submitted, 2 valid endorsements
  * *Cheng Tzu-tsai <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheng_Tzu-tsai>* and
    Huang Sheng-feng <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=Huang_Sheng-feng&action=edit&redlink=1> [zh <https://
    zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E9%BB%83%E8%81%96%E5%B3%B0>] (Sovereign State
    for Formosa and Pescadores Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
    index.php?
    title=Sovereign_State_for_Formosa_and_Pescadores_Party&action=edit&redlink=1> [zh <https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E5%8F%B0%E6%BE%8E%E5%9C%8B%E9%9A%9B%E6%B3%95%E6%B3%95%E7%90%86%E5%BB%BA%E5%9C%8B%E9%BB%A8>]) 608 signatures submitted, 478 valid endorsements
  * *Lan Hsin-chi <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lan_Hsin-
    chi&action=edit&redlink=1> [zh <https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    %E8%97%8D%E4%BF%A1%E7%A5%BA>]* and Chou Ke-chi (周克琦) 146
    signatures submitted, 58 valid endorsements
  * *Fu Yin* (符音) and Hsieh Tsu-hsuan (謝祖鉉) 113 signatures
    submitted, 91 valid endorsements


    Election campaign[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=15>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Mingde_3rd_Road_name_sign_and_Team_Taiwan_banner_20231014.jpg>
A "Team Taiwan" election poster featuring Lai Ching-te <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te>, October 2023.

Throughout the election campaign, almost all polls have showed Vice
President <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vice_President_of_the_Republic_of_China> Lai Ching-te <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te> winning the election by a plurality
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plurality_(voting)>, with the rest of the
vote being split between the KMT and TPP.^[52] <#cite_note-auto1-52>
Lai's lead increased in September 2023, when Terry Gou <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Gou> announced his own independent bid for
the presidency.^[53] <#cite_note-53> In August 2023, amid campaiging,
Lai Ching-te went to Paraguay <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paraguay>
for an official visit in his capacity as Vice President, with two
stopovers in the United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States>.^[54] <#cite_note-54> Lai insisted he was not campaigning
during the trips.^[55] <#cite_note-55> In late October, China <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China> opened an investigation into Foxconn
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foxconn>, after Chinese tax authorities
conducted an audit of the company's subsidiaries in the Guangdong
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guangdong> and Jiangsu <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jiangsu> provinces.^[56] <#cite_note-56> Within
the final weeks preceding the election, Lai's lead narrowed as the
publication of opinion polls ceased.^[57] <#cite_note-57>

Lai and Hsiao held their first rally together on 26 November 2023, where
they called the election a "fight for the survival of the country".^[58]
<#cite_note-:2-58> Lai's campaign used his late pet dog and Hsiao's pet
cats as campaign mascots, the cats allegedly referencing Hsiao's "cat
warrior" diplomacy.^[59] <#cite_note-59> Thousands of Taiwanese
academics voiced their support for Lai, arguing the DPP would continue
to safeguard the country's democracy.^[60] <#cite_note-60> Hou of the
KMT said Lai was "paying lip service" to voters, and described the
election as a choice between war or peace. The TPP generally opted for
smaller rallies, which primarily attracted younger voters.^[58]
<#cite_note-:2-58> As usual, temples were visited by party candidates so
as to interact with voters.^[61] <#cite_note-61>


      Unrealized KMT–TPP joint ticket[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=16>]

In late 2023, talks of a possible joint ticket between the KMT and TPP
began.^[62] <#cite_note-62> It was initially unclear if the KMT's Hou
Yu-ih <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hou_Yu-ih> and the TPP's Ko Wen-je
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je> would join as a ticket, let
alone who would be the nominee for president and vice president once a
joint ticket was announced.^[52] <#cite_note-auto1-52> The DPP's Lai
stated he would be able to take on the challenge of a joint ticket, and
criticized the coalition plans, arguing the two parties do not share
enough similarity in ideology.^[63] <#cite_note-63> ^[/failed
verification <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Verifiability>/]
In November, Ko said that deciding who would lead the ticket as the
presidential nominee was the 'only hurdle' remaining in forming the
ticket.^[52] <#cite_note-auto1-52> On 13 November, the KMT and TPP
agreed to use polling to determine the composition of the joint
presidential ticket.^[64] <#cite_note-:0-64> The order of the joint
ticket was to be chosen based on opinion polls and publicly announced on
18 November,^[65] <#cite_note-65> but the two sides were unable to come
to an agreement on that date.^[66] <#cite_note-66> On 18 November, the
original deal collapsed following a dispute regarding the polling.^[67]
<#cite_note-67> The KMT and TPP were reportedly unable to come to a
consensus surrounding the margins of error.^[68] <#cite_note-68> Despite
the initial collapse, there were still attempts to form a pan-blue
coalition ticket. Terry Gou, who himself had run in the KMT primary, was
informally invited to talks as well.^[69] <#cite_note-69> * * A
televised press conference between Hou You-ih, Ko Wen-je, Terry Gou, as
well as Eric Chu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_Chu> and Ma Ying-
jeou <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ma_Ying-jeou> took place on 23
November.^[70] <#cite_note-70> The press conference did not yield any
agreement between any of the involved parties, and was described as
"bizarre".^[71] <#cite_note-71> ^[72] <#cite_note-72> On 24 November,
the deadline for candidate registration, each party announced their own
vice presidential candidate, eliminating any chance of a pan-blue
ticket.^[73] <#cite_note-73>


      Issues in focus[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=17>]


        Energy and economic policy[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
        index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=18>]

Hou and Ko both support gradually increasing the use of nuclear energy,
(Hou supported 18% use by 2050) while the DPP's Lai supports eliminating
nuclear energy by 2050. All three candidates agreed to increase use of
renewables.^[74] <#cite_note-74> The KMT vice presidential nominee
criticized the use of solar energy, preferring nuclear power
instead.^[75] <#cite_note-75> Cost of living featured as a topic of
debate, with a third of voters saying economic issues were pressing.
Both Lai and Hou pledged to increase the minimum wage.^[76]
<#cite_note-76> Lai acknowledged there were shortcomings in the
government's approach to help younger people in the country, promising
minimum wage would increase from NT$26,400 to NT$27,470 by 2025.^[77]
<#cite_note-77> Additionally, Lai vowed to offer financial support to
Taiwanese start-up companies, saying he would allocate NT$150 billion
for small business investment.^[78] <#cite_note-78> Ko offered plans to
integrate hospitals and bolster the medical field, while the KMT's Hou
promised to address mental health.^[79] <#cite_note-79>


        [edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=19>]

Rights groups such as the Awakening Foundation criticized all three
major party candidates for not doing enough to promote gender equality,
which includes reducing working hours for parents, the gender pay gap,
and child care.^[80] <#cite_note-80> In October, Vice President Lai
joined a Pride Parade in Taipei, becoming one of the most senior
government officials to do so.^[81] <#cite_note-81> TPP candidate Ko
Wen-je had historically been opposed to same-sex marriage.^[82]
<#cite_note-82> Both Lai Ching-te and Ko Wen-je signed a pledge
organized by the Taiwan Equality Campaign promising to promote and
support sexual diversity and LGBT equality.^[83] <#cite_note-83> Hou
criticized Lai for his lack of a consistent position on capital
punishment <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capital_punishment>, which
most polls show has been widely supported by the public. At the
presidential debate, Lai stated although he was personally opposed to
the death penalty, it would remain in place under his administration due
to broad public support.^[84] <#cite_note-84>


        Cross-Strait relations and national defense[edit <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=20>]

In China <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China>, Xi Jinping <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xi_Jinping> had further asserted his power, having
secured an unprecedented third term as General Secretary of the Chinese
Communist Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
General_Secretary_of_the_Chinese_Communist_Party>, the most powerful
position <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paramount_leader> in China.^[85]
<#cite_note-85> The 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine> had also prompted
fears of an escalation between Mainland China <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Mainland_China> and Taiwan.^[86] <#cite_note-86> The CIA <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Intelligence_Agency> also warned not to
underestimate the potential of a Chinese invasion of Taiwan <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_unification>.^[87] <#cite_note-87> After
incumbent President Tsai Ing-wen visited the United States and met with
House Speaker Kevin McCarthy in April 2022, the Chinese military
responded with military exercises near Taiwan.^[88] <#cite_note-88> When
KMT nominee Hou Yu-ih visited the US, he encouraged the Biden
administration <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presidency_of_Joe_Biden>
to make clear their commitment to defending Taiwan. Later in December,
Hou stated he would seek closer ties with China, and criticized the Tsai
administration's approach to China.^[89] <#cite_note-89> Lai asserted
Taiwanese sovereignty, but said a formal declaration of independence
would be unnecessary. He also said he would be willing to work with the
Chinese government <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government_of_China>,
but only if they renounce any intentions to use force against
Taiwan.^[90] <#cite_note-90> In November 2023, Lai argued that closer
economic ties with like-minded countries could maintain Taiwan's
sovereignty while preventing escalation of conflict.^[91] <#cite_note-91>

The DPP generally favored a continuation of the status quo of cross-
strait relations coupled by strengthening ties with the United States.
Lai did not rule out dialogue with China, but described Taiwanese
sovereignty as 'a fact', making any declaration of independence
unnecessary.^[92] <#cite_note-92> The KMT believed economic links with
Mainland China and more dialogue would preserve peace between the
two.^[93] <#cite_note-93> Lai's past self-identification as a "worker
for Taiwanese independence" led to criticism from both Hou and Ko; Lai
argued that Taiwan is a sovereign nation under the name the Republic of
China.^[94] <#cite_note-94> Lai accused the opposition of befriending
the Chinese Communist Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Chinese_Communist_Party> instead of countering them.^[95]
<#cite_note-95> China's Taiwan Affairs Council described the DPP ticket
as a "separatist duo". TPP candidate Ko stated that Taiwan should be a
bridge between the US and China, rather than what he described as a
pawn. Outgoing President Tsai of the DPP highlighted China's one country
two systems doctrine with Hong Kong as an example of what could happen
if Taiwan were to reunify with Mainland China. Polls showed most
Taiwanese preferred the status quo.^[96] <#cite_note-96> In response to
former KMT President Ma Ying-jeou's comments stating Taiwan must rely on
Xi Jinping's willingness to not invade, Lai cautioned against trusting
the Chinese government; instead he reiterated his plans to strengthen
national defense.^[97] <#cite_note-97> Again outgoing Tsai reminded
voters of Hong Kong's place in China, arguing on 12 January 2024 that
greater security would act as the best deterrent to any forceful
reunification.^[98] <#cite_note-98>

In 2023, the Ministry of Defense <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ministry_of_National_Defense_(Republic_of_China)> commissioned the
building of the first Haikun-class submarine <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Hai_Kun-class_submarine>. Launched in September 2023, it is set to
enter service by 2025.^[99] <#cite_note-99> In an August 2023 interview
with Bloomberg <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloomberg_News>, Lai
described a strong military capacity as being a form of deterrence
against potential Chinese aggression.^[100] <#cite_note-100> In October,
Lai said that Taiwan's armed forces must be able to safeguard the
country.^[101] <#cite_note-101> The Chinese government sanctioned five
American-based companies for their sale of arms to Taiwan's military one
week before the election.^[102] <#cite_note-102>


      Election interference[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=21>]

Thousands of cases related to election interference were opened by
Taiwanese authorities, implicating more than 3,000 individuals. There
were 1,430 cases of election gambling and 353 cases involving
misinformation. Illegal gains from gambling and bribes exceeded
NT$45.11 million (US$1.45 million).^[103] <#cite_note-103> Over 40
people were detained under various charges. Another investigation
uncovered a large but isolated network of inauthentic social media
accounts that promoted the KMT and attacked Ko Wen-je <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je> out of the concern that Ko would become
a spoiler candidate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vote_splitting>.^[104] <#cite_note-104> ^[105] <#cite_note-:3-105>


        Involving China[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
        title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=22>]

Hundreds of people were arrested under the Anti-Infiltration Act
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-Infiltration_Act>. Some of them
received money from China, made trips there, or subsidized others to
travel to the mainland.^[106] <#cite_note-106> Ten Taiwanese soliders
were allegedly paid by China to make surrender videos, and one of them
was reportedly offered millions to defect in a military
helicopter.^[105] <#cite_note-:3-105> Taiwanese intelligence reported
that China coordinated disinformation campaigns on social media to
influence the election.^[107] <#cite_note-107> According to the BBC
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BBC>, these efforts were meant to drive a
wedge between Taiwan and the US, portraying the latter as unreliable
regarding defense. Most sources of disinformation, however, were
credited to Taiwanese groups favorable to China.^[108] <#cite_note-108>


      Debates[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=23>]

Debates for presidential candidates and vice presidential candidates
were announced on 8 December. These were organized by 11 Taiwanese media
corporations including Taiwan's Public Television Service <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_Television_Service> as the host, and
include all 3 candidates for President and Vice President,
respectively.^[18] <#cite_note-DebateCNA-18> ^[109] <#cite_note-109> The
presidential and vice-presidential debates were held on 30 December and
1 January respectively.^[110] <#cite_note-:1-110> ^[13] <#cite_note-
lotspresentations-13> Prior to the debates, Central Election Commission
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Election_Commission_(Taiwan)>
organized several televised policy presentations on 20, 26, and 28
December for presidential candidates and on 22 December for vice
presidential candidates.^[14] <#cite_note-PolicyForumCEC-14> ^[15]
<#cite_note-PolicyForumRTI-15> ^[16] <#cite_note-PolicyForumRTIOld-16>

In the presidential policy presentations and only debate, Lai and Hou
both sparred over cross-strait relations, with the two disagreeing on
how to approach China. Hou also accused the DPP of corruption and
criticized the party's handling of COVID-19 <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/COVID-19_pandemic_in_Taiwan>.^[111] <#cite_note-111> He repeatedly
attacked Lai over his past support for Taiwanese independence <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_independence_movement>, and reiterated the
need for dialogue with China. He also rejected any possibility of a one
country, two systems reunification plan for Taiwan.^[112]
<#cite_note-112> Lai in contrast compared the KMT backed 1992 Consensus
with China with Hong Kong's one country, two systems <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_country,_two_systems> model with China. He
claimed annexing Taiwan is China's national policy, and cautioned
against embracing their ideals. Simultaneously, he stated the importance
of a peaceful Taiwan Strait <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Taiwan_Strait>.^[113] <#cite_note-113> He stated his support for
bolstering self-defense, increasing use of renewable energy, and the
implementation of policies for strengthening the economy. Ko attempted
to appeal to the youth, addressing housing, wages and other issues. He
said he too was open to dialogue with the Chinese government.^[114]
<#cite_note-114> Notably, Hou spoke in Taiwanese Hokkien <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwanese_Hokkien> on numerous occasions.^[115]
<#cite_note-115>

2024 Taiwan *presidential election debate*
Date 	Host^[18] <#cite_note-DebateCNA-18> 	 P  Present    A  Absent   I 
Invited  
DPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party>
Lai Ching-te <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te> 	KMT <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang>
Hou Yu-ih <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hou_Yu-ih> 	TPP <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_People%27s_Party>
Ko Wen-je <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je>
		
30 December 2023^[110] <#cite_note-:1-110> 	PTS <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_Television_Service>^[18] <#cite_note-
DebateCNA-18> 	*P* 	*P* 	*P*

In the Vice Presidential presentations and debate, Wu repeatedly
stressed her experience working with the US and strengthening trade,
while Jaw called the DPP's Lai a "terrorist". Jaw was also subject to a
gaffe in which he accidentally referred to Lai as his "boss". Hsiao
criticized her opponents for questioning her Taiwanese nationality, and
also accused them of being overly reliant on China for economic
prosperity.^[116] <#cite_note-116> Trade and concerns over China played
large roles in all vice presidential debates and presentations.^[117]
<#cite_note-117> The debate in particular focussed on trade, energy and
foreign policy.^[118] <#cite_note-118> New Bloom Magazine declared the
Vice Presidential debate as a "clear win" for Hsiao.^[119]
<#cite_note-119> In the last two presidential elections winning over the
votes of younger generations was seen as crucial to victory.^[120]
<#cite_note-120>

2024 Taiwan *vice presidential debate*
Date 	Host^[18] <#cite_note-DebateCNA-18> 	 P  Present    A  Absent   I 
Invited  
DPP <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party>
Hsiao Bi-khim <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hsiao_Bi-khim> 	KMT
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang>
Jaw Shaw-kong <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaw_Shaw-kong>		TPP
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_People%27s_Party>
Cynthia Wu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynthia_Wu>
		
1 January 2024^[110] <#cite_note-:1-110> 	PTS <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Public_Television_Service>^[18] <#cite_note-DebateCNA-18> 	*P* 	*P*
	*P*


      Foreign observations[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=24>]

The elections were described as "crucial" regarding foreign
policy.^[121] <#cite_note-121> ^[122] <#cite_note-122> The election was
also described as being "closely watched" due to its impact on cross-
strait ties.^[123] <#cite_note-123> CNN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
CNN> stated the election 'could change the world'.^[124] <#cite_note-124>


    Opinion polling[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=25>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
2024_Taiwanese_presidential_opinion_pollings.svg>


    Results[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=26>]

All election results were released at 22:00 on 13 January, and showed
that Lai Ching-te had won with 40.05% of the vote.^[125] <#cite_note-125>

Candidate	Running mate	Party	Votes	%
	Lai Ching-te <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lai_Ching-te>	Hsiao Bi-khim
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hsiao_Bi-khim>	Democratic Progressive
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Progressive_Party>	
5,586,019	40.05
	Hou Yu-ih <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hou_Yu-ih>	Jaw Shaw-kong
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaw_Shaw-kong>	Kuomintang <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuomintang>	4,671,021	33.49
	Ko Wen-je <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ko_Wen-je>	Cynthia Wu
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cynthia_Wu>	Taiwan People's Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_People%27s_Party>	3,690,466	26.46
Total	13,947,506	100.00
Valid votes	13,947,506	99.28
Invalid/blank votes	100,804	0.72
Total votes	14,048,310	100.00
Registered voters/turnout	19,548,531	71.86
Source: Central Election Commission <https://vote2024.cec.gov.tw/en/
indexP.html>


      Results by Administrative division[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/
      w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=27>]

Administrative division 	Lai/Hsiao
(DPP) 	Hou/Jaw
(KMT) 	Ko/Wu
(TPP) 	Winner margin 	Total

votes

Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	Votes 	% 	Votes 	pp
/Taipei City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taipei>/ 	*587,897* 	
*38.13%* 	587,258 	38.08% 	366,854 	23.79% 	+641 	+0.04 	*1,542,011*
/New Taipei City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Taipei_City>/ 	
*948,818* 	*38.59%* 	864,557 	35.17% 	645,105 	26.24% 	+84,261 	+3.43 	
*2,458,480*
/Taoyuan City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taoyuan,_Taiwan>/ 	
*476,441* 	*35.27%* 	460,823 	34.12% 	413,528 	30.61% 	+15,618 	+1.16 	
*1,350,792*
/Taichung City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taichung>/ 	*641,622* 	
*37.58%* 	552,556 	32.37% 	513,025 	30.05% 	+89,066 	+5.22 	*1,707,203*
/Tainan City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tainan>/ 	*570,811* 	
*50.95%* 	286,867 	25.61% 	262,560 	23.44% 	+283,944 	+25.35 	*1,120,238*
/Kaohsiung City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaohsiung>/ 	*800,390* 	
*48.89%* 	478,476 	29.23% 	358,096 	21.88% 	+321,914 	+19.67 	*1,636,962*
/Taiwan Province <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_Province>/ 	
Keelung City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keelung_City> 	75,491 	
34.83% 	*83,685* 	*38.61%* 	57,550 	26.55% 	-8,194 	-3.78 	*4,075,845* 	
*216,726*
Hsinchu City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hsinchu> 	*92,679* 	*34.79%*
	82,326 	30.90% 	91,384 	34.30% 	+1,295 	+0.49 	*266,389*
Hsinchu County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hsinchu_County> 	92,977 	
27.40% 	*125,652* 	*37.03%* 	120,654 	35.56% 	-32,675 	-9.63 	*339,283*
Miaoli County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miaoli_County> 	91,798 	
28.81% 	*131,230* 	*41.18%* 	95,637 	30.01% 	-39,432 	-12.37 	*318,665*
Changhua County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Changhua_County> 	
*282,514* 	*38.11%* 	244,140 	32.93% 	214,714 	28.96% 	+38,374 	+5.18 	
*741,368*
Nantou County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nantou_County> 	103,279 	
35.95% 	*109,163* 	*38.00%* 	74,854 	26.05% 	-5,884 	-2.05 	*287,296*
Yunlin County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yunlin_County> 	*169,516* 	
*44.54%* 	111,633 	29.33% 	99,470 	26.13% 	+57,883 	+15.21 	*380,619*
Chiayi City <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chiayi_City> 	*68,199* 	
*43.26%* 	49,507 	31.40% 	39,950 	25.34% 	+18,692 	+11.86 	*157,656*
Chiayi County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chiayi_County> 	*139,510* 	
*47.69%* 	85,642 	29.28% 	67,382 	23.03% 	+53,868 	+18.41 	*292,534*
Pingtung County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pingtung_County> 	
*225,933* 	*47.58%* 	146,084 	30.77% 	102,788 	21.65% 	+79,849 	+16.82 	
*474,805*
Yilan County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yilan_County,_Taiwan> 	
*119,517* 	*44.74%* 	77,441 	28.99% 	70,171 	26.27% 	+42,076 	+15.75 	
*267,129*
Hualien County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hualien_County> 	43,157 	
24.78% 	*87,953* 	*50.50%* 	43,047 	24.72% 	-44,796 	-25.72 	*174,157*
Taitung County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taitung_County> 	30,131 	
27.41% 	*54,220* 	*49.32%* 	25,590 	23.28% 	-24,089 	-21.91 	*109,941*
Penghu County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penghu_County> 	*19,023* 	
*38.60%* 	18,052 	36.63% 	12,202 	24.76% 	+971 	+1.97 	*49,277*
/Fuchien Province <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Fuchien_Province,_Republic_of_China>/ 	Kinmen County <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinmen_County> 	4,569 	10.02% 	*28,005* 	*61.40%*
	13,038 	28.58% 	-23,436 	-51.38 	*51,771* 	*45,612*
Lienchiang County <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lienchiang_County> 	648
	10.52% 	*3,860* 	*62.67%* 	1,651 	26.81% 	-3,212 	-52.15 	*6,159*
Total 	5,586,019 	40.05% 	4,671,021 	33.49% 	3,690,466 	26.46% 	+914,998
	6.56 	13,947,506
Administrative division 	Lai/Hsiao

(DPP)

	Hou/Jaw

(KMT)

	Ko/Wu

(TPP)

	DPP Margin (win/lose to KMT) 	Total

votes


    Aftermath[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=28>]

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:
20240113_Taiwan_DPP_election_celebration_2.jpg>
DPP supporters gathered outside campaign headquarters as Lai gave
victory speech

At around 20:00, Hou conceded to Lai in an address to his supporters at
his campaign headquarters in New Taipei. He also apologized for failing
to end eight years of DPP rule.^[126] <#cite_note-126> At 20:04, Ko
addressed his supporters at his campaign headquarters in New Taipei. He
said that the TPP's campaign showed the world that Taiwan was no longer
dominated by the "green" and "blue" camps and urged his supporters to
continue their hard work for the next election.^[127] <#cite_note-127>

In a social media reflection over the campaign on 15 January, Hou’s
running mate Jaw Shau-kong said that in order to win future elections,
the Kuomintang needed to undertake major reforms such as "incorporating
a bit of socialist [messaging] on wealth equality," ensuring that its
membership better reflected Taiwan's demographics, and promoting greater
democracy and transparency in its nomination system.^[128]
<#cite_note-128> At a Central Standing Committee meeting of the
Kuomintang on 17 January, its leadership acknowledged that although 60%
of the electorate voted against the DPP, the failure to establish a
joint ticket with the TPP undermined <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vote_splitting> its chances of winning the election. They also
attributed the Kuomintang’s defeat to its failure to attract support
from younger voters as well as those living in southern Taiwan, where it
lost to the DPP by 700,000 votes, and what it called the "apparatus of
the state" manipulated by the outgoing government in favor of Lai. Amid
calls within the Kuomintang for his resignation, party chairman Eric Chu
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_Chu> insisted that he would
"shoulder all responsibilities and endure humiliations to stay in the
position until the end of his term" in 2025.^[129] <#cite_note-129>

During his victory speech, Lai thanked Hou and Ko for conceding, as well
as the Taiwanese people for "writing a new chapter in our democracy" and
taking a stand against authoritarianism, adding that they "successfully
resisted efforts from external forces to influence this election." He
expressed hope for "healthy and orderly" exchanges with China but also
pledged to defend Taiwan from "continuing threats and intimidation" from
its neighbour.^[130] <#cite_note-ajlai-130> He called on China to
"recognize the new situation, and understand that only peace benefits
both sides of the strait."^[131] <#cite_note-cnnlai-131>

Outgoing president Tsai Ing-wen congratulated Lai and his running mate
Hsiao Bi-kim and said the elections expressed Taiwan's "determination to
maintain democracy" and their "love for Taiwan and for freedom".^[132]
<#cite_note-132>


    International reactions[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=29>]


      People's Republic of China[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=30>]

During the voting, the hashtag "Taiwan election" became a top-trending
topic in Weibo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weibo>, at one point
reaching 163.2 million views before it was removed. Chinese state media
also provided little coverage on the vote.^[133] <#cite_note-133>

Following Lai's victory, the Taiwan Affairs Office <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taiwan_Affairs_Office> said the elections "cannot
stop the unstoppable trend of the eventual reunification of the
motherland" and that the DPP "cannot represent the mainstream public
opinion" in Taiwan.^[134] <#cite_note-bbclai-134> A mainland China
foreign ministry spokesperson said that regardless of the election
result, "the basic fact that there is only one China <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_China> in the world and Taiwan is part of
China will not change."^[131] <#cite_note-cnnlai-131> In response, the
Taiwan-run Mainland Affairs Council <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mainland_Affairs_Council> urged Beijing to "fully respect the election
results and Taiwan's public opinion," and "rationally assess" the post-
election situation.^[135] <#cite_note-135>

The government of the People's Republic of China (PRC) lodged formal
complaints after Japan and the United States expressed congratulations
to Lai, warning them against interfering in "China's internal affairs",
sending wrong signals to Taiwanese independence advocates, and violating
pledges to maintain only unofficial ties with Taiwan.^[136]
<#cite_note-136> ^[137] <#cite_note-137> It also made démarches
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%C3%A9marche> to Singapore after its
foreign ministry <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ministry_of_Foreign_Affairs_(Singapore)> welcomed and congratulated the
election,^[138] <#cite_note-138> and summoned Philippine ambassador
Jaime FlorCruz <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaime_FlorCruz> following
President Bongbong Marcos <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bongbong_Marcos>' congatulatory message to Lai.^[139] <#cite_note-139>

During election day, eight Chinese military aircraft and six naval
vessels were detected by Taiwan's Defense Ministry.^[140]
<#cite_note-140> On 14 January, a day after Lai's victory was confirmed,
four Chinese military vessels and a high-altitude balloon were detected
around Taiwan.^[141] <#cite_note-141>

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ministry_of_Foreign_Affairs_(Taiwan)> of Taiwan alleged that China
encouraged Nauru to shift diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to China,
coerced ASEAN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASEAN> countries to "echo
the fictitious narrative of the so-called 'one China principle" and
instigated statements made by the Solomon Islands, the Maldives, and
Bangladesh which disparaged Taiwan's sovereignty status.^[142]
<#cite_note-142>


      Other countries[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=31>]

  *  Australia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australia>: A spokesperson
    for the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Department_of_Foreign_Affairs_and_Trade> said
    that the "smooth conduct of the elections is a testament to the
    maturity and strength of Taiwan's democracy".^[143] <#cite_note-143>
  *  Canada <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canada>: The foreign ministry
    congratulated the Taiwanese people after the election without
    mentioning Lai.^[144] <#cite_note-ajworld-144> Canada recognized the
    legitimacy of the PRC since 1970.
  *  France <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/France>: The foreign ministry
    congratulated elected officials after the election in a
    statement.^[145] <#cite_note-145>
  *  Germany <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Germany>: The Federal
    Foreign Office <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Federal_Foreign_Office> congratulated the elected officials and said
    "Germany has close and good relations with Taiwan in many sectors
    and wants to expand them within the framework of its One-China
    policy."^[146] <#cite_note-146>
  *  Japan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japan>: Foreign Minister Yoko
    Kamikawa <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoko_Kamikawa> expressed
    congratulations on the "smooth implementation of the democratic
    election" and Lai's victory, adding that the country expected Taiwan
    to continue to "contribute to the peace and stability in the
    region". She also expressed hope that issues surrounding Taiwan will
    be resolved "peacefully by dialogue".^[147] <#cite_note-147>
  *  Lithuania <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lithuania>: Foreign
    minister Gabrielius Landsbergis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Gabrielius_Landsbergis> congratulated Lai and praised "the strength
    of free and fair democracy".^[144] <#cite_note-ajworld-144>
  *  Nauru <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nauru>: Nauru, which
    recognized the legitimacy of the Republic of China as the sole
    legitimate government of "China" <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    One_China>, commended the successful conduct of the election.
    However, a day after the election it severed its relations with the
    ROC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nauru%E2%80%93Taiwan_relations>
    and resumed its relations with the PRC.^[148] <#cite_note-148>
  *  Paraguay <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paraguay>: President
    Santiago Peña <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santiago_Pe%C3%B1a>
    congratulated Lai and called to strengthen relations between the two
    countries.^[149] <#cite_note-149>
  *  Philippines <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philippines>: The
    Department of Foreign Affairs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Department_of_Foreign_Affairs_(Philippines)> (DFA) released a
    statement reaffirming the country's adherence to the One China
    Policy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_China_Policy> referencing
    the joint communique it signed with the government based in mainland
    China in 1975.^[150] <#cite_note-150> ^[151] <#cite_note-151>
    President Bongbong Marcos <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Bongbong_Marcos> later congratulated Lai and expressed hope for
    better ties between the Philippines and Taiwan.^[152]
    <#cite_note-152> The DFA reaffirmed the One China Policy after
    Marcos's statement which it acknowledged as the president thanking
    Taiwan for hosting Overseas Filipino Workers <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overseas_Filipino_Workers>.^[153]
    <#cite_note-153> Under continued Chinese pressure, Marcos reaffirmed
    the policy again but added that the congratulatory message was
    "common courtesy". He says that his country does not support
    Taiwanese independence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Taiwan_independence_movement> and says that the island is a province
    of China.^[154] <#cite_note-154>
  *  Russia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russia>: Foreign Ministry
    spokesperson Maria Zakharova <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Maria_Zakharova> says that Russia would continue to recognize Taiwan
    as an integral part of China and any attempt by any country to use
    the election to pressure China is "counterproductive, and should be
    condemned by the international community".^[155] <#cite_note-155>
  *  Singapore <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore>: In a
    statement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ministry_of_Foreign_Affairs_(Singapore)>
    welcomed "the successful conclusion of the elections" and
    congratulated the DPP and Lai on their victory, adding that besides
    consistently supporting the peaceful development of cross-strait
    relations <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-strait_relations>,
    "Singapore shares a close and longstanding friendship <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singapore%E2%80%93Taiwan_relations> with
    Taiwan and the Taiwanese people, and will continue to grow this
    relationship based on our 'One China' policy."^[156] <#cite_note-156>
  *  Somaliland <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Somaliland>: In a
    statement on X, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of
    Somaliland <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Ministry_of_Foreign_Affairs_(Somaliland)>, an unrecognized state
    that is internationally regarded as part of Somalia <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Somalia> but recognized by Taiwan,
    congratulated Lai, Hsiao and the DPP for their victory, stating that
    "Taiwan truly demonstrated its dedication to democratic values and
    serves as an inspiration to others."^[157] <#cite_note-157>
  *  South Korea <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Korea>: A foreign
    ministry official said that it expected "peace and stability across
    the Taiwan Strait to be maintained and the peaceful development of
    cross-strait relations", calling it "essential" for peace and
    stability on the Korean Peninsula and an "essential element" for
    regional peace and prosperity.^[158] <#cite_note-158>
  *  United Kingdom <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom>:
    Foreign Secretary David Cameron <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    David_Cameron> congratulated Lai and expressed hope that Taiwan and
    China would renew efforts to resolve their differences peacefully,
    adding that the elections "are testament to Taiwan's vibrant
    democracy".^[144] <#cite_note-ajworld-144>
  *  United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States>:
    President Joe Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>
    reiterated that the US does not support Taiwanese
    independence.^[130] <#cite_note-ajlai-130> Secretary of State Antony
    Blinken <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antony_Blinken> congratulated
    Lai on his victory and praised Taiwan's "robust democratic system
    and electoral process", adding that the US was "committed to
    maintaining cross-strait peace and stability".^[134] <#cite_note-
    bbclai-134> Speaker of the House of Representatives Mike Johnson
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mike_Johnson_(Louisiana_politician)>
    also congratulated Lai and said that he would send a congressional
    delegation to his inauguration.^[159] <#cite_note-159>
  *  Vietnam <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vietnam>: Foreign ministry
    spokeswoman Pham Thu Hang said that Vietnam would continue with its
    commitment to the One-China policy while maintaining and fostering
    people-to-people and non-governmental relations between Taiwan and
    Vietnam in various sectors such as economics, trade, investment,
    science and technology, culture, and education. She also stated that
    Vietnam "respects the principle of non-interference in each other’s
    internal affairs and believes that peace, stability, and cooperation
    in the Taiwan Strait is crucial for both the region and the global
    community."^[160] <#cite_note-160> 


      Supranational organizations[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/
      index.php?
      title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=32>]

  *  European Union <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union>: A
    statement issued by a spokesperson for foreign policy chief Josep
    Borrell <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josep_Borrell> said it
    "welcomed" Taiwan's presidential election and "congratulates all the
    voters who participated in this democratic exercise". It also
    expressed concern about "growing tensions in the Taiwan Strait and
    opposes any unilateral attempt to change the status quo."^[161]
    <#cite_note-161> 


    See also[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=33>]

  * 2024 Taiwanese legislative election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2024_Taiwanese_legislative_election>
  * Politics of Taiwan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politics_of_Taiwan>
  * Government of Taiwan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Government_of_Taiwan>


    References[edit <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
    title=2024_Taiwanese_presidential_election&action=edit&section=34>]

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-1>* "Taiwan sets next presidential election for
    January 2024" <https://asia.nikkei.com/Politics/Taiwan-elections/
    Taiwan-sets-next-presidential-election-for-January-2024>. /Nikkei
    Asia/. 11 March 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231231151439/https://asia.nikkei.com/Politics/Taiwan-elections/
    Taiwan-sets-next-presidential-election-for-January-2024> from the
    original on 31 December 2023. Retrieved 18 March 2023.
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-2>* "Taiwan sets Jan 13, 2024 for presidential,
    legislative elections" <https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/
    4831353>. /Taiwan News/. 10 March 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231208045132/https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/
    news/4831353> from the original on 8 December 2023. Retrieved 8
    August 2023.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-3>* "China skeptic wins Taiwan presidency in snub to
    Beijing" <https://www.politico.eu/article/william-lai-takes-early-
    lead-in-taiwan-presidential-race-in-snub-to-beijing/>. /POLITICO/.
    13 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113123001/https://www.politico.eu/article/william-lai-takes-
    early-lead-in-taiwan-presidential-race-in-snub-to-beijing/> from the
    original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-4>* Dominguez, Gabriel (13 January 2024). "Taiwan VP
    Lai Ching-te wins presidential vote as opposition concedes"
    <https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2024/01/13/asia-pacific/politics/
    taiwan-presidential-election/>. /The Japan Times/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113123001/https://
    www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2024/01/13/asia-pacific/politics/taiwan-
    presidential-election/> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
 5. *^ <#cite_ref-5>* "'Troublemaker' anti-China William Lai set to be
    Taiwan's president: Who is he" <https://www.hindustantimes.com/
    world-news/taiwan-elections-william-lai-termed-troublemaker-by-
    china-set-to-be-taiwans-president-101705144149734.html>. /Hindustan
    Times/. 13 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113123001/https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-
    elections-william-lai-termed-troublemaker-by-china-set-to-be-
    taiwans-president-101705144149734.html> from the original on 13
    January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
 6. *^ <#cite_ref-6>* "Taiwan's Tsai Ing-wen enters second term with a
    strong political mandate, but no room for complacency" <https://
    www.brookings.edu/articles/taiwans-tsai-ing-wen-enters-second-term-
    with-a-strong-political-mandate-but-no-room-for-complacency/>. /
    Brookings/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231209040840/
    https://www.brookings.edu/articles/taiwans-tsai-ing-wen-enters-
    second-term-with-a-strong-political-mandate-but-no-room-for-
    complacency/> from the original on 9 December 2023. Retrieved 9
    December 2023.
 7. *^ <#cite_ref-7>* 中央通訊社 (27 November 2022). "九合一選舉綠退守南
    台灣 執政版圖、議會席次選舉數據一次看 | 政治" <https://
    www.cna.com.tw/news/aipl/202211275002.aspx>. /中央社 CNA/ (in
    Chinese). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221209174237/
    https://www.cna.com.tw/news/aipl/202211275002.aspx> from the
    original on 9 December 2022. Retrieved 9 December 2023.
 8. *^ <#cite_ref-8>* "賴清德當選民進黨黨主席 「務實台獨者」的他會是下任
    台灣總統嗎？" <https://www.bbc.com/zhongwen/trad/chinese-
    news-64261592>. /BBC News 中文/ (in Traditional Chinese). Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230820075519/https://www.bbc.com/
    zhongwen/trad/chinese-news-64261592> from the original on 20 August
    2023. Retrieved 9 December 2023.
 9. *^ <#cite_ref-9>* "Presidential and Vice Presidential Election and
    Recall Act" <https://law.moj.gov.tw/ENG/LawClass/LawAll.aspx?
    pcode=D0020053>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20190113232230/https://law.moj.gov.tw/ENG/LawClass/LawAll.aspx?
    pcode=D0020053> from the original on 13 January 2019. Retrieved 15
    January 2019.
10. *^ <#cite_ref-10>* Chung, Yu-chen (28 August 2023). "Election 2024/
    Terry Gou jumps into 2024 presidential race as independent
    candidate" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308280003>. Central
    News Agency. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230829014629/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308280003> from the original on
    29 August 2023. Retrieved 29 August 2023. "With the declaration of
    his intention to join the 2024 race as an independent, Gou will now
    be required to obtain the signatures of at least 1.5 percent of the
    electorate in the last legislative election, which would mean around
    290,000 signatures, within 45 days of his formal application to run
    as an independent candidate, according to law."
11. *^ <#cite_ref-11>* Chung, Yu-chen (28 August 2023). "Election 2024/
    Terry Gou announces presidency bid, touts business acumen as key
    asset" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308280014>. Central News
    Agency. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230829014414/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308280014> from the original on
    29 August 2023. Retrieved 29 August 2023. "Independent presidential
    candidates are required to file an official application to run and
    collect the required signatures from Sept. 13-17. Those signatures
    are then collected from Sept. 19 to Nov. 2 and the Central Election
    Commission (CEC) announces whether the candidates collected enough
    signatures by Nov. 14."
12. *^ <#cite_ref-12>* Yeh, Joseph (28 August 2023). "Election 2024/
    Terry Gou's decision to run for president 'deeply regrettable': KMT"
    <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308280005>. Central News Agency.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230829014415/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308280005> from the original on 29 August
    2023. Retrieved 29 August 2023. "The date for the registration of
    presidential candidates at the Central Election Commission is Nov.
    20-24."
13. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-lotspresentations_13-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-lotspresentations_13-1> Chung, Yu-chen (11 December
    2023). "Election 2024/Parties draw lots for placement on Taiwan's
    presidential ballot" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202312110006>.
    Central News Agency. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231211053109/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202312110006> from
    the original on 11 December 2023. Retrieved 11 December 2023. "Ko
    Wen-je (柯文哲) of the Taiwan People's Party (TPP) and his running
    mate Wu Hsin-ying (吳欣盈) secured the top position on the ballot,
    the CEC said after the draw was completed. Lai Ching-te (賴清德) and
    Hsiao Bi-khim (蕭美琴) of the ruling Democratic Progressive Party
    drew the second position, while Hou Yu-ih (侯友宜) and Jaw Shau-kong
    (趙少康) of the main opposition Kuomintang placed third, according
    to the CEC. ... As the campaign period heats up, the three
    presidential candidates will face off in a televised debate hosted
    by Public Television Service (PTS) on Dec. 30 at 2 p.m. Meanwhile,
    the vice presidential candidates are expected to take part in a
    similar live debate on Jan. 1 at 2 p.m., pending the TPP's
    confirmation of Wu's participation. In addition to the debates, the
    presidential candidates are scheduled to present their policies on
    live television in three consecutive broadcasts -- on Dec. 20 at 7
    p.m., Dec. 26 at 2 p.m., and Dec. 28 at 7 p.m., according to the
    CEC. The vice presidential candidates will give a similar
    presentation on Dec. 22 at 7 p.m., the CEC said."
14. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-PolicyForumCEC_14-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-PolicyForumCEC_14-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-
    PolicyForumCEC_14-2> "總統副總統候選人電視政見發表會12月20日晚間7點
    登場，共舉辦4場" <https://web.cec.gov.tw/central/cms/112news/
    41045>. /Central Election Commission (Taiwan) <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Election_Commission_(Taiwan)>/ (in
    Traditional Chinese). 13 December 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231228133613/https://web.cec.gov.tw/central/
    cms/112news/41045> from the original on 28 December 2023. Retrieved
    28 December 2023. "...第16任總統副總統選舉競選活動...在112年12月20、
    26、28日舉辦3場總統候選人電視政見發表會，以及12月22日舉辦副總統候選
    人電視政見發表會... (year in ROC era <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ROC_era>)"
15. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-PolicyForumRTI_15-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-PolicyForumRTI_15-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-
    PolicyForumRTI_15-2> Mary Anne Sioco (20 December 2023).
    "Presidential and vice presidential public forum schedule announced"
    <https://en.rti.org.tw/news/view/id/2010456>. /Radio Taiwan
    International <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Radio_Taiwan_International>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231228135114/https://en.rti.org.tw/news/view/id/2010456> from the
    original on 28 December 2023. Retrieved 28 December 2023. "The first
    forum was broadcast on Formosa Television at 7 p.m. Wednesday (20
    December, 2023)..The forums allow the candidates to present their
    policies during three rounds of 10 minutes each. Although the forums
    are not debates, candidates still have room to question the other
    parties and defend their positions...The second and third rounds of
    the forum are scheduled for 2 p.m. on Dec. 26 and 7 p.m. on Dec. 28.
    ..Vice presidential candidates will also have a separate forum...at
    7 p.m. on Dec. 22..."
16. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-PolicyForumRTIOld_16-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-PolicyForumRTIOld_16-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-
    PolicyForumRTIOld_16-2> Filip Leskovsky (23 October 2023).
    "Televised presidential candidate debates set for December"
    <https://en.rti.org.tw/news/view/id/2010163>. /Radio Taiwan
    International <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Radio_Taiwan_International>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231228135114/https://en.rti.org.tw/news/view/id/2010163> from the
    original on 28 December 2023. Retrieved 28 December 2023. "The
    Central Election Commission (CEC) announced...The first broadcast
    will be on December 20 at 7:00 p.m., the second on December 26 at
    2:00 p.m., and the third on December 28 at 7:00 p.m., with the vice
    presidential candidate speeches on December 22 at 7:00 p.m..."
17. *^ <#cite_ref-17>* "Taiwan's Lai to election rivals - Beijing sees
    all of us as pro-independence" <https://asia.nikkei.com/Politics/
    Taiwan-s-Lai-to-election-rivals-Beijing-sees-all-of-us-as-pro-
    independence>. Nikkei Shimbun <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Nikkei_Shimbun>. 21 December 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231228133612/https://asia.nikkei.com/Politics/
    Taiwan-s-Lai-to-election-rivals-Beijing-sees-all-of-us-as-pro-
    independence> from the original on 28 December 2023. Retrieved 28
    December 2023. "Taiwan's first televised debate among the three
    presidential candidates on Tuesday"
18. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-DebateCNA_18-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    DebateCNA_18-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-DebateCNA_18-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-
    DebateCNA_18-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-DebateCNA_18-4> ^/*f*/ <#cite_ref-
    DebateCNA_18-5> ^/*g*/ <#cite_ref-DebateCNA_18-6> "總統候選人政見會
    最終場晚間7時登場" <https://www.cna.com.tw/news/aipl/
    202312280027.aspx>. /Central News Agency (Taiwan) <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_News_Agency_(Taiwan)>/ (in Traditional
    Chinese). 28 December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231228133612/https://www.cna.com.tw/news/aipl/202312280027.aspx>
    from the original on 28 December 2023. Retrieved 28 December 2023.
    "...公辦政見發表會結束後，由11家媒體共同主辦、在公視製播的電視辯論
    會，將於元旦連假進行，總統候選人電視辯論會30日下午2時展開；副總統候
    選人電視辯論會定明年元旦下午2時舉行..."
19. *^ <#cite_ref-19>* "Lai leads DPP to historic third term" <https://
    www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2024/01/14/2003812068>. /
    Taipei Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taipei_Times>/. 14
    January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113190830/
    https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/
    2024/01/14/2003812068> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024. "Vice President William Lai (賴清德) won
    the presidential election last night, delivering the Democratic
    Progressive Party (DPP) a record third term in office."
20. *^ <#cite_ref-20>* "Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-wen quits as party
    chair after local elections" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
    asia-63768538>. /BBC News/. 26 November 2022. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231213182728/https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
    asia-63768538> from the original on 13 December 2023. Retrieved 10
    November 2023.
21. *^ <#cite_ref-21>* "Taiwan election: William Lai, labelled a
    troublemaker by China, leads poll" <https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/live/
    world-asia-67954619>. /BBC News/. 13 January 2024. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113114841/https://www.bbc.co.uk/
    news/live/world-asia-67954619> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
22. *^ <#cite_ref-22>* "DPP Picks 'Worker for Taiwanese Independence' as
    New Leader" <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-16/dpp-
    picks-worker-for-taiwanese-independence-as-new-leader>. /
    Bloomberg.com/. 16 January 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230517104718/http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/
    2023-01-16/dpp-picks-worker-for-taiwanese-independence-as-new-
    leader> from the original on 17 May 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
23. *^ <#cite_ref-23>* "Tsai-Lai presidential ticket formally formed -
    Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/201911170002>. /Focus
    Taiwan - CNA English News/. 17 November 2019. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231110074145/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    201911170002> from the original on 10 November 2023. Retrieved 10
    November 2023.
24. *^ <#cite_ref-24>* "VP Lai runs in DPP primary, vows to safeguard
    Taiwan amid China threat" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202303150012>. Central News Agency. 15 March 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230331000904/https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202303150012> from the original on 31 March 2023. Retrieved
    31 March 2023.
25. *^ <#cite_ref-25>* "Registration for DPP presidential primary closes
    with Lai Ching-te as sole registrant" <https://
    english.ftvnews.com.tw/news/2023317W0AEA>. /FTV News/. 17 March
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230320053218/https://
    english.ftvnews.com.tw/news/2023317W0AEA> from the original on 20
    March 2023. Retrieved 31 March 2023.
26. *^ <#cite_ref-26>* Teng, Pei-ju (12 April 2023). "Election 2024/VP
    Lai picked as DPP's candidate for 2024 presidential election"
    <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202304120011>. Central News Agency.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230524014112/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202304120011> from the original on 24 May
    2023. Retrieved 18 June 2023.
27. *^ <#cite_ref-27>* "Lai says Taiwan's U.S. envoy tops his list of
    potential running mates - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202311010005>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 1
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110074145/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311010005> from the original on
    10 November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
28. *^ <#cite_ref-28>* 中央通訊社 (20 November 2023). "蕭美琴請辭駐美代
    表 投入2024大選" <https://www.cna.com.tw/news/aipl/
    202311205002.aspx> (in Chinese). Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231120032103/https://www.cna.com.tw/news/aipl/
    202311205002.aspx> from the original on 20 November 2023. Retrieved
    20 November 2023.
29. *^ <#cite_ref-29>* "William Lai names Taiwan's former US envoy as
    election running mate" <https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/11/20/
    william-lai-names-taiwans-former-us-envoy-as-election-running-mate>.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231120110030/https://
    www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/11/20/william-lai-names-taiwans-former-
    us-envoy-as-election-running-mate> from the original on 20 November
    2023. Retrieved 20 November 2023.
30. *^ <#cite_ref-30>* "Taiwan ruling party powers ahead as chaos
    engulfs opposition campaign" <https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-
    pacific/taiwan-ruling-party-powers-ahead-with-opposition-mired-
    bitter-dispute-2023-11-22/>. /Reuters/. 22 November 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231210230800/https://www.reuters.com/
    world/asia-pacific/taiwan-ruling-party-powers-ahead-with-opposition-
    mired-bitter-dispute-2023-11-22/> from the original on 10 December
    2023. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
31. *^ <#cite_ref-31>* Shih, Hsiu-chuan (17 May 2023). "Election 2024/
    New Taipei Mayor Hou Yu-ih named as KMT presidential nominee"
    <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202305170007>. Central News Agency.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231003145544/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202305170007> from the original on 3 October
    2023. Retrieved 18 June 2023.
32. *^ <#cite_ref-32>* "Terry Gou's decision to run for president
    'deeply regrettable': KMT - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202308280005>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 28 August
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230829071707/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308280005> from the original on 29 August
    2023. Retrieved 8 November 2023.
33. *^ <#cite_ref-33>* Hsiao, Alison (24 November 2023). "ELECTION 2024/
    KMT names media personality Jaw Shau-kong as Hou's running mate"
    <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311240007>. Central News Agency.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231124040527/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311240007> from the original on 24
    November 2023. Retrieved 24 November 2023.
34. *^ <#cite_ref-34>* Kuo, Chien-ta; Wang, Hung-kuo; Ko, Lin (8 May
    2023). "Election 2024/Ko Wen-je registers for TPP presidential
    primary" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202305080019>. Central
    News Agency. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230618010303/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202305080019> from the original on
    18 June 2023. Retrieved 18 June 2023.
35. *^ <#cite_ref-35>* Lin, Sean; Kuo, Chien-shen (17 May 2023).
    "Election 2024/TPP formally nominates Ko as its presidential
    candidate" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202305170008>. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230618005625/https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202305170008> from the original on 18 June 2023. Retrieved
    18 June 2023.
36. *^ <#cite_ref-36>* Lin, Sean (24 November 2023). "ELECTION 2024/
    TPP's Ko registers presidential candidacy, names lawmaker Wu as
    running mate" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311240006>.
    Central News Agency. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231124041155/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311240006> from
    the original on 24 November 2023. Retrieved 24 November 2023.
37. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto_37-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto_37-1> "Presidential aspirant Terry Gou announces running mate -
    Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202309140002>. /Focus
    Taiwan - CNA English News/. 14 September 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231110082155/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202309140002> from the original on 10 November 2023. Retrieved 10
    November 2023.
38. *^ <#cite_ref-38>* Blanchard, Ben; Lee, Yimou; Lee, Yimou (28 August
    2023). "Foxconn founder Terry Gou announces run for Taiwan
    presidency" <https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/foxconn-
    founder-terry-gou-announces-run-taiwan-presidency-2023-08-28/>. /
    Reuters/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231107061510/
    https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/foxconn-founder-terry-
    gou-announces-run-taiwan-presidency-2023-08-28/> from the original
    on 7 November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
39. *^ <#cite_ref-39>* "Terry Gou's decision to run for president
    'deeply regrettable': KMT - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202308280005>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 28 August
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230829071707/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308280005> from the original on 29 August
    2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
40. *^ <#cite_ref-40>* Blanchard, Ben; Lee, Yimou; Lee, Yimou (24
    October 2023). "Taiwan frontrunner assails China as Foxconn probe
    becomes election issue" <https://www.reuters.com/technology/taiwan-
    presidential-frontrunner-lambastes-china-over-foxconn-
    probe-2023-10-24/>. /Reuters/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231110082154/https://www.reuters.com/technology/taiwan-
    presidential-frontrunner-lambastes-china-over-foxconn-
    probe-2023-10-24/> from the original on 10 November 2023. Retrieved
    10 November 2023.
41. *^ <#cite_ref-41>* "Taiwan election: Foxconn founder Terry Gou picks
    Netflix actress as running mate" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
    asia-66806123>. /BBC News/. 14 September 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231105183320/https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
    asia-66806123> from the original on 5 November 2023. Retrieved 10
    November 2023.
42. *^ <#cite_ref-42>* "Foxconn Founder Taps Netflix Star as Running
    Mate in Taiwan Vote" <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/
    2023-09-14/foxconn-founder-gou-picks-actress-as-running-mate-in-
    taiwan-election>. /Bloomberg.com/. 14 September 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240115153827/https://
    www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-09-14/foxconn-founder-gou-
    picks-actress-as-running-mate-in-taiwan-election> from the original
    on 15 January 2024. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
43. *^ <#cite_ref-43>* "Seven suspected of crimes connected to Gou
    signature drive" <https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/
    2023/10/24/2003808134>. /Taipei Times/. 24 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110082154/https://
    www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2023/10/24/2003808134> from
    the original on 10 November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
44. *^ <#cite_ref-44>* "Taiwan prosecutors log at least 20
    investigations into Terry Gou campaign" <https://
    www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/5035937>. /Taiwan News/. 8 November
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110082156/https://
    www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/5035937> from the original on 10
    November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
45. *^ <#cite_ref-45>* "Independent presidential hopeful submits 1
    million petition signatures - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202311020013>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 2
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231106082312/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311020013> from the original on 6
    November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
46. *^ <#cite_ref-46>* Kao, Jeanny; Lee, Yimou; Lee, Yimou (14 November
    2023). "Foxconn founder Terry Gou qualifies to run for Taiwan
    president" <https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/foxconn-
    founder-terry-gou-qualifies-run-taiwan-president-2023-11-14/>. /
    Reuters/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115050740/
    https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/foxconn-founder-terry-
    gou-qualifies-run-taiwan-president-2023-11-14/> from the original on
    15 November 2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
47. *^ <#cite_ref-Gou_dropout_47-0>* Teng, Pei-ju (24 November 2023).
    "ELECTION 2024/Business tycoon Terry Gou drops out of presidential
    race" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311240013>. Central News
    Agency. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231124072715/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311240013> from the original on
    24 November 2023. Retrieved 24 November 2023.
48. *^ <#cite_ref-48>* "Foxconn Founder Gou Set to Drop Out of Taiwan
    Presidential Race" <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/
    2023-11-24/terry-gou-set-to-quit-taiwan-presidential-race-people-
    say>. /Bloomberg.com/. 24 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231124060832/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/
    articles/2023-11-24/terry-gou-set-to-quit-taiwan-presidential-race-
    people-say> from the original on 24 November 2023. Retrieved 10
    December 2023.
49. *^ <#cite_ref-49>* 自由時報電子報 (24 November 2023). "「人退、志不
    退」 郭台銘發表退選聲明 - 政治 - 自由時報電子報" <https://
    news.ltn.com.tw/news/politics/breakingnews/4500306>. /
    news.ltn.com.tw/ (in Chinese). Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231124073445/https://news.ltn.com.tw/news/politics/
    breakingnews/4500306> from the original on 24 November 2023.
    Retrieved 10 December 2023.
50. *^ <#cite_ref-50>* "Former Control Yuan chief announces bid for
    Taiwan presidency" <https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/
    4850424>. /Taiwan News/. 29 March 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231208045132/https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/
    news/4850424> from the original on 8 December 2023. Retrieved 10
    November 2023.
51. *^ <#cite_ref-51>* Lin, Sean (14 November 2023). "Election 2024/
    Terry Gou officially qualifies for presidential election" <https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311140019>. Central News Agency. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115020100/https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202311140019> from the original on 15 November 2023.
    Retrieved 15 November 2023.Republished as: "Hon Hai founder Terry
    Gou qualifies to run for president" <https://www.taipeitimes.com/
    News/taiwan/archives/2023/11/15/2003809201>. /Taipei Times/. 15
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115051516/
    https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/taiwan/archives/
    2023/11/15/2003809201> from the original on 15 November 2023.
    Retrieved 15 November 2023.
52. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto1_52-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto1_52-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-auto1_52-2> "Presidential candidate
    choice 'only hurdle' left for joint ticket: Ko - Focus Taiwan"
    <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311070024>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA
    English News/. 7 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231110090910/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311070024>
    from the original on 10 November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
53. *^ <#cite_ref-53>* "Taiwan presidential contender Lai takes big lead
    in opinion polls" <https://asia.nikkei.com/Politics/Taiwan-
    presidential-contender-Lai-takes-big-lead-in-opinion-polls>. /Nikkei
    Asia/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110032223/https://
    asia.nikkei.com/Politics/Taiwan-presidential-contender-Lai-takes-
    big-lead-in-opinion-polls> from the original on 10 November 2023.
    Retrieved 10 November 2023.
54. *^ <#cite_ref-54>* "Taiwan's vice president leaves on Paraguay trip
    amid Chinese efforts to isolate the island" <https://apnews.com/
    article/taiwan-paraguay-china-william-
    lai-7b3d148682afde782f5bd9351fa8054d>. /AP News/. 12 August 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110090914/https://
    apnews.com/article/taiwan-paraguay-china-william-
    lai-7b3d148682afde782f5bd9351fa8054d> from the original on 10
    November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
55. *^ <#cite_ref-55>* "VP Lai returns to Taiwan after visits to U.S.,
    Paraguay - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202308180005>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 18 August 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110090916/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202308180005> from the original on 10
    November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
56. *^ <#cite_ref-56>* He, Laura (23 October 2023). "Apple iPhone maker
    Foxconn being investigated in China as founder runs for Taiwan
    presidency" <https://www.cnn.com/2023/10/23/economy/china-foxconn-
    investigation-taiwan-presidency-intl-hnk/index.html>. /CNN/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110090910/https://
    www.cnn.com/2023/10/23/economy/china-foxconn-investigation-taiwan-
    presidency-intl-hnk/index.html> from the original on 10 November
    2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
57. *^ <#cite_ref-57>* Keating, Joshua (6 January 2024). "Why Taiwan is
    2024's first big election to watch" <https://www.vox.com/world-
    politics/2024/1/6/24026992/taiwan-china-president-war-xi-jinping-
    asia-semiconductors-chips>. /Vox/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113051845/https://www.vox.com/world-
    politics/2024/1/6/24026992/taiwan-china-president-war-xi-jinping-
    asia-semiconductors-chips> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
58. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:2_58-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:2_58-1>
    "Lai, Hsiao hold first campaign rally together" <https://
    www.taipeitimes.com/News/taiwan/archives/2023/11/27/2003809772>. /
    Taipei Times/. 27 November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20240113051845/https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/taiwan/archives/
    2023/11/27/2003809772> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
59. *^ <#cite_ref-59>* "Instagram" <https://www.instagram.com/p/
    Cz5_wKthaax/?hl=en>. /Instagram/. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
60. *^ <#cite_ref-60>* "Academics mobilize in support of DPP
    presidential ticket - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202312190024>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 19
    December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231228163646/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202312190024> from the original on
    28 December 2023. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
61. *^ <#cite_ref-61>* "Health Care, Mental Health and Energy on
    Taiwan's Presidential Campaign Trail" <https://www.youtube.com/
    watch?v=pUG-HZiwuI0>, /TaiwanPlus News/, archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113052202/https://www.youtube.com/watch?
    v=pUG-HZiwuI0> from the original on 13 January 2024, retrieved 13
    January 2024
62. *^ <#cite_ref-62>* "Opposition considers joint ticket for better
    chance of winning Taiwan election" <https://www.scmp.com/news/china/
    politics/article/3237792/taiwans-kmt-and-tpp-discuss-forming-joint-
    ticket-presidential-election>. /South China Morning Post/. 13
    October 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110081103/
    https://www.scmp.com/news/china/politics/article/3237792/taiwans-
    kmt-and-tpp-discuss-forming-joint-ticket-presidential-election> from
    the original on 10 November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
63. *^ <#cite_ref-63>* "Ko slams Hou's urgent call for joint ticket
    'forced marriage' - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202310240021>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 24 October 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110090922/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202310240021> from the original on 10
    November 2023. Retrieved 10 November 2023.
64. *^ <#cite_ref-:0_64-0>* "KMT, TPP agree to use polls to determine
    joint presidential ticket - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202311130021>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 13
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115050741/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311130021> from the original on
    15 November 2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
65. *^ <#cite_ref-65>* "Election 2024/KMT, TPP to form joint
    presidential ticket based upon polling results" <https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311150008>. /Focus Taiwan/. 15 November
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115055124/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311150008> from the original on 15
    November 2023. Retrieved 15 November 2023.
66. *^ <#cite_ref-66>* "Election 2024/KMT, TPP back to stalemate on how
    to form joint presidential ticket" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202311180005>. /Focus Taiwan/. 18 November 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231130220107/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202311180005> from the original on 30 November 2023. Retrieved 18
    November 2023.
67. *^ <#cite_ref-67>* "Taiwan's opposition coalition fails to pick
    candidate amid polling dispute" <https://www.aljazeera.com/news/
    2023/11/18/taiwans-opposition-fails-to-agree-on-presidential-poll-
    results>. /Al Jazeera/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231210233332/https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/11/18/taiwans-
    opposition-fails-to-agree-on-presidential-poll-results> from the
    original on 10 December 2023. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
68. *^ <#cite_ref-68>* 黃驛淵 (17 November 2023). "【獨家】【藍白民調破
    局1】藍白漏夜交鋒5小時破局 侯營要求「讓6%」柯營氣跳腳" <https://
    www.mirrormedia.mg/story/20231118inv001>. /鏡週刊 Mirror Media/ (in
    Traditional Chinese). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231210231831/https://www.mirrormedia.mg/story/20231118inv001> from
    the original on 10 December 2023. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
69. *^ <#cite_ref-69>* Buckley, Chris; Chien, Amy Chang (24 November
    2023). "Taiwan Opposition Cracks Apart, and Invites the Cameras In"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/24/world/asia/taiwan-president-
    opposition-collapse.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://
    www.worldcat.org/issn/0362-4331>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231210231830/https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/24/world/asia/
    taiwan-president-opposition-collapse.html> from the original on 10
    December 2023. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
70. *^ <#cite_ref-70>* Lee, Yimou; Hamacher, Fabian; Lee, Yimou (23
    November 2023). "Taiwan opposition talks on presidential bid teeter
    after bitter live TV showdown" <https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-
    pacific/war-with-china-is-not-an-option-taiwan-ruling-party-vp-
    candidate-says-2023-11-23/>. /Reuters/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231210231830/https://www.reuters.com/world/
    asia-pacific/war-with-china-is-not-an-option-taiwan-ruling-party-vp-
    candidate-says-2023-11-23/> from the original on 10 December 2023.
    Retrieved 10 December 2023.
71. *^ <#cite_ref-71>* Hioe, Brian (23 November 2023). "Pan-Blue Unity
    Ticket Dissolves Spectacularly with Televised Spat Between
    Candidates" <https://newbloommag.net/2023/11/23/pan-blue-ticket-
    spat/>. /New Bloom Magazine/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231210231830/https://newbloommag.net/2023/11/23/pan-blue-ticket-
    spat/> from the original on 10 December 2023. Retrieved 10 December
    2023.
72. *^ <#cite_ref-72>* "How the Taiwan Opposition Alliance Talks Fell
    Apart" <https://thediplomat.com/2023/11/how-the-taiwan-opposition-
    alliance-talks-fell-apart/>. /The Diplomat/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113025313/https://thediplomat.com/2023/11/
    how-the-taiwan-opposition-alliance-talks-fell-apart/> from the
    original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
73. *^ <#cite_ref-73>* Hioe, Brian (24 November 2023). "Hou and Ko
    Register Separate Runs, Gou Withdraws From Election" <https://
    newbloommag.net/2023/11/24/hou-ko-gou-final/>. /New Bloom Magazine/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231210231830/https://
    newbloommag.net/2023/11/24/hou-ko-gou-final/> from the original on
    10 December 2023. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
74. *^ <#cite_ref-74>* "Presidential aspirants agree on renewables,
    diverge on nuclear energy - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202311120006>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 12
    November 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113052202/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202311120006> from the original on
    13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
75. *^ <#cite_ref-75>* "Health Care, Mental Health and Energy on
    Taiwan's Presidential Campaign Trail" <https://www.youtube.com/
    watch?v=pUG-HZiwuI0>, /TaiwanPlus News/, archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113052202/https://www.youtube.com/watch?
    v=pUG-HZiwuI0> from the original on 13 January 2024, retrieved 13
    January 2024
76. *^ <#cite_ref-76>* Hawkins, Amy; correspondent, Amy Hawkins Senior
    China (8 January 2024). "Taiwan election: who are the candidates and
    what is at stake?" <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/jan/08/
    taiwan-election-who-candidates-what-stake>. /The Guardian/. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0261-3077
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0261-3077>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113054053/https://www.theguardian.com/
    world/2024/jan/08/taiwan-election-who-candidates-what-stake> from
    the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
77. *^ <#cite_ref-77>* "DPP's Lai promises to level up salaries in
    Taiwan - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202312140006>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 14 December 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113055105/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202312140006> from the original on 13
    January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
78. *^ <#cite_ref-78>* "William Lai vows to expand financial support to
    start-ups" <https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/taiwan/archives/
    2023/10/04/2003807194>. /Taipei Times/. 4 October 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113055105/https://
    www.taipeitimes.com/News/taiwan/archives/2023/10/04/2003807194> from
    the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
79. *^ <#cite_ref-79>* "Health Care, Mental Health and Energy on
    Taiwan's Presidential Campaign Trail" <https://www.youtube.com/
    watch?v=pUG-HZiwuI0>, /TaiwanPlus News/, archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113052202/https://www.youtube.com/watch?
    v=pUG-HZiwuI0> from the original on 13 January 2024, retrieved 13
    January 2024
80. *^ <#cite_ref-80>* "Civic groups pan parties' responses to gender-
    equality questionnaire - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202312260011>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 26
    December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113052549/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202312260011> from the original on
    13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
81. *^ <#cite_ref-81>* "Taiwan presidential frontrunner marches in
    LGBTQ+ Pride parade" <https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/
    5029957>. /Taiwan News/. 30 October 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113052549/https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/
    news/5029957> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
82. *^ <#cite_ref-82>* Hioe, Brian (26 March 2021). "Taiwan People's
    Party Comes Under Fire for Ties to Anti-Gay Group" <https://
    newbloommag.net/2021/03/26/tpp-anti-gay-gtspa/>. /New Bloom
    Magazine/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113052550/
    https://newbloommag.net/2021/03/26/tpp-anti-gay-gtspa/> from the
    original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
83. *^ <#cite_ref-83>* "Two Presidential Hopefuls Pledge Support for
    Sexual Diversity" <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JbAGtnedjV4>, /
    TaiwanPlus News/, archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113052550/https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JbAGtnedjV4> from the
    original on 13 January 2024, retrieved 13 January 2024
84. *^ <#cite_ref-84>* Hioe, Brian (11 January 2024). "Hou Seeks to
    Attack Lai Over Capital Punishment" <https://newbloommag.net/
    2024/01/11/hou-lai-capital-punishment/>. /New Bloom Magazine/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113052549/https://
    newbloommag.net/2024/01/11/hou-lai-capital-punishment/> from the
    original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
85. *^ <#cite_ref-85>* "中共二十大：「反台獨」寫入黨章後台灣是否「更危
    險」？" <https://www.bbc.com/zhongwen/trad/chinese-news-63382267>. /
    BBC News 中文/ (in Traditional Chinese). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20221106131631/https://www.bbc.com/zhongwen/
    trad/chinese-news-63382267> from the original on 6 November 2022.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
86. *^ <#cite_ref-86>* Qin, Amy; Chien, Amy Chang (28 April 2022). "「今
    日烏克蘭，明日台灣」？俄烏局勢帶給台灣人的啟示" <https://
    cn.nytimes.com/asia-pacific/20220302/ukraine-taiwan-china-russia/zh-
    hant/>. /紐約時報中文網/ (in Chinese). Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230517025447/https://cn.nytimes.com/asia-
    pacific/20220302/ukraine-taiwan-china-russia/zh-hant/> from the
    original on 17 May 2023. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
87. *^ <#cite_ref-87>* Gazis, Olivia (3 February 2023). "CIA Director
    William Burns: "I wouldn't underestimate" Xi's ambitions for Taiwan
    - CBS News" <https://www.cbsnews.com/news/cia-director-william-
    burns-i-wouldnt-underestimate-xis-ambitions-for-taiwan/>. /CBS/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113053334/https://
    www.cbsnews.com/news/cia-director-william-burns-i-wouldnt-
    underestimate-xis-ambitions-for-taiwan/> from the original on 13
    January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
88. *^ <#cite_ref-88>* 中央通訊社 (6 April 2023). "蔡麥歷史會晤 蔡英文感
    謝美支持、麥卡錫稱台美友誼是和平關鍵 | 政治" <https://
    www.cna.com.tw/news/aipl/202304060019.aspx>. /中央社 CNA/ (in
    Chinese). Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230422182558/
    https://www.cna.com.tw/news/aipl/202304060019.aspx> from the
    original on 22 April 2023. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
89. *^ <#cite_ref-89>* "KMT presidential nominee Hou pledges better ties
    with both U.S., China - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202312070015>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 7
    December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113053335/
    https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202312070015> from the original on
    13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
90. *^ <#cite_ref-90>* "Can Taiwan's Next Leader Keep the Peace?"
    <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/newsletters/2023-08-15/taiwan-vice-
    president-lai-ching-te-on-the-status-quo-with-china>. /
    Bloomberg.com/. 15 August 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230906114456/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/newsletters/
    2023-08-15/taiwan-vice-president-lai-ching-te-on-the-status-quo-
    with-china> from the original on 6 September 2023. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
91. *^ <#cite_ref-91>* "Taiwan's Presidential Frontrunner Faces a
    Balancing Act With China" <https://time.com/6336441/taiwan-
    presidental-election-william-lai-profile/>. /TIME/. 21 November
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113133524/https://
    time.com/6336441/taiwan-presidental-election-william-lai-profile/>
    from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
92. *^ <#cite_ref-92>* "Presidential hopeful Lai says Taiwan's
    sovereignty is 'a fact'" <https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/8/25/
    taiwan-vice-president-emphasises-islands-autonomy>. /Al Jazeera/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113054053/https://
    www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/8/25/taiwan-vice-president-emphasises-
    islands-autonomy> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
93. *^ <#cite_ref-93>* Hawkins, Amy; correspondent, Amy Hawkins Senior
    China (8 January 2024). "Taiwan election: who are the candidates and
    what is at stake?" <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/jan/08/
    taiwan-election-who-candidates-what-stake>. /The Guardian/. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0261-3077
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0261-3077>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113054053/https://www.theguardian.com/
    world/2024/jan/08/taiwan-election-who-candidates-what-stake> from
    the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
94. *^ <#cite_ref-94>* Keating, Joshua (6 January 2024). "Why Taiwan is
    2024's first big election to watch" <https://www.vox.com/world-
    politics/2024/1/6/24026992/taiwan-china-president-war-xi-jinping-
    asia-semiconductors-chips>. /Vox/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113051845/https://www.vox.com/world-
    politics/2024/1/6/24026992/taiwan-china-president-war-xi-jinping-
    asia-semiconductors-chips> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
95. *^ <#cite_ref-95>* Keating, Joshua (6 January 2024). "Why Taiwan is
    2024's first big election to watch" <https://www.vox.com/world-
    politics/2024/1/6/24026992/taiwan-china-president-war-xi-jinping-
    asia-semiconductors-chips>. /Vox/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113051845/https://www.vox.com/world-
    politics/2024/1/6/24026992/taiwan-china-president-war-xi-jinping-
    asia-semiconductors-chips> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
96. *^ <#cite_ref-96>* /Why Taiwan's election matters to the world/
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=grwffyDS7yE>, archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113054053/https://www.youtube.com/watch?
    v=grwffyDS7yE> from the original on 13 January 2024, retrieved 13
    January 2024
97. *^ <#cite_ref-97>* "Lai Ching-te warns against former Taiwan
    president's trust in Beijing" <https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/
    news/5076150>. /Taiwan News/. 11 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113054054/https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/
    news/5076150> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
98. *^ <#cite_ref-98>* "Tsai tells Taiwanese voters to think about Hong
    Kong's fate" <https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/5051968>. /
    Taiwan News/. 4 December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20240113054053/https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/5051968>
    from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
99. *^ <#cite_ref-99>* "Haikun: Taiwan unveils new submarine to fend off
    China" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-66932808>. 28 September
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113160255/https://
    www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-66932808> from the original on 13
    January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
100. *^ <#cite_ref-100>* "Can Taiwan's Next Leader Keep the Peace?"
    <https://www.bloomberg.com/news/newsletters/2023-08-15/taiwan-vice-
    president-lai-ching-te-on-the-status-quo-with-china>. /
    Bloomberg.com/. 15 August 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230906114456/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/newsletters/
    2023-08-15/taiwan-vice-president-lai-ching-te-on-the-status-quo-
    with-china> from the original on 6 September 2023. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
101. *^ <#cite_ref-101>* "Taiwan's Presidential Frontrunner Faces a
    Balancing Act With China" <https://time.com/6336441/taiwan-
    presidental-election-william-lai-profile/>. /TIME/. 21 November
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113133524/https://
    time.com/6336441/taiwan-presidental-election-william-lai-profile/>
    from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
102. *^ <#cite_ref-102>* "China sanctions 5 US defense companies in
    response to US sanctions and arms sales to Taiwan" <https://
    apnews.com/article/china-us-taiwan-sanctions-arms-sales-
    a2cc4dd00ad8982aa1c67594e1a1c19c>. /AP News/. 7 January 2024.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113054726/https://
    apnews.com/article/china-us-taiwan-sanctions-arms-sales-
    a2cc4dd00ad8982aa1c67594e1a1c19c> from the original on 13 January
    2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
103. *^ <#cite_ref-103>* "Over 200 arrested for Chinese interference in
    Taiwan's elections" <https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/
    5076809>. /Taiwan News/. 12 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113091331/https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/
    news/5076809> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
104. *^ <#cite_ref-104>* "Forty detained over voting interference"
    <https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/
    2023/12/15/2003810648>. /Taipei Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Taipei_Times>/. 15 December 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231215021030/https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/
    front/archives/2023/12/15/2003810648> from the original on 15
    December 2023. Retrieved 14 January 2024.
105. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:3_105-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    3_105-1> Hioe, Brian (5 January 2024). "Taiwan confronts China's
    disinformation behemoth ahead of vote" <https://www.codastory.com/
    authoritarian-tech/taiwan-election-disinformation-china/>. /Coda
    Story <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coda_Story>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240114032934/https://
    www.codastory.com/authoritarian-tech/taiwan-election-disinformation-
    china/> from the original on 14 January 2024. Retrieved 14 January 2024.
106. *^ <#cite_ref-106>* "Over 200 arrested for Chinese interference in
    Taiwan's elections" <https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/
    5076809>. /Taiwan News/. 12 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113091331/https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/
    news/5076809> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
107. *^ <#cite_ref-107>* "China Ramps Up Efforts to Interfere in Taiwan's
    Coming Elections" <https://www.voanews.com/a/china-ramps-up-efforts-
    to-interfere-in-taiwan-s-coming-elections/7395061.html>. /Voice of
    America/. 12 December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113091332/https://www.voanews.com/a/china-ramps-up-efforts-to-
    interfere-in-taiwan-s-coming-elections/7395061.html> from the
    original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
108. *^ <#cite_ref-108>* "Taiwan election: China sows doubt about US with
    disinformation" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-67891869>. 7
    January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113091331/
    https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-67891869> from the original on
    13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
109. *^ <#cite_ref-109>* "Dates Set for Taiwan's Presidential Debates"
    <https://www.taiwanplus.com/news/taiwan-news/politics/231209006/
    dates-set-for-taiwans-presidential-debates>. /TaiwanPlus/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231211001118/https://
    www.taiwanplus.com/news/taiwan-news/politics/231209006/dates-set-
    for-taiwans-presidential-debates> from the original on 11 December
    2023. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
110. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:1_110-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    1_110-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-:1_110-2> "Taiwan's presidential
    candidates will hold a televised debate as the race heats up"
    <https://apnews.com/article/taiwan-presidential-debate-
    china-04ccf19a683365c5f00e12453c0f73ff>. /AP News/. 8 December 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231211001118/https://
    apnews.com/article/taiwan-presidential-debate-
    china-04ccf19a683365c5f00e12453c0f73ff> from the original on 11
    December 2023. Retrieved 10 December 2023.
111. *^ <#cite_ref-111>* "Presidential Candidates Debate Cross-Strait
    Policy, 1992 Consensus" <https://www.taiwanplus.com/news/taiwan-
    news/politics/231230001/presidential-candidates-debate-cross-strait-
    policy-1992-consensus>. /TaiwanPlus/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113092337/https://www.taiwanplus.com/news/
    taiwan-news/politics/231230001/presidential-candidates-debate-cross-
    strait-policy-1992-consensus> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
112. *^ <#cite_ref-112>* Hioe, Brian (22 December 2023). "Lai and Hou
    Focus on Cross-Strait Relations, Ko on Appeals to Youth in First
    Presidential Policy Presentation" <https://newbloommag.net/
    2023/12/23/2024-first-policy-presentation/>. /New Bloom Magazine/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113092337/https://
    newbloommag.net/2023/12/23/2024-first-policy-presentation/> from the
    original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
113. *^ <#cite_ref-113>* "Taiwan holds first-ever policy presentation for
    political parties" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202401080020>. /
    Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 8 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113092337/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202401080020> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
114. *^ <#cite_ref-114>* "Candidates Take the Stage for First Policy
    Forum" <https://www.taiwanplus.com/news/taiwan-news/politics/
    231221008/candidates-take-the-stage-for-first-policy-forum>. /
    TaiwanPlus/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113092338/
    https://www.taiwanplus.com/news/taiwan-news/politics/231221008/
    candidates-take-the-stage-for-first-policy-forum> from the original
    on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
115. *^ <#cite_ref-115>* "Taiwan's presidential candidates emphasize
    peace in relations with Beijing" <https://apnews.com/article/taiwan-
    presidential-elections-china-8eb93b9e13705ecbbdb47d6e6723353b>. /AP
    News/. 30 December 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113092337/https://apnews.com/article/taiwan-presidential-
    elections-china-8eb93b9e13705ecbbdb47d6e6723353b> from the original
    on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
116. *^ <#cite_ref-116>* "DPP record slated by KMT, TPP candidates at
    vice presidential debate - Focus Taiwan" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202401010014>. /Focus Taiwan - CNA English News/. 1 January
    2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113092929/https://
    focustaiwan.tw/politics/202401010014> from the original on 13
    January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
117. *^ <#cite_ref-117>* "'Sacred mountain' TSMC becomes a flash point in
    Taiwan's election, as opposition blames China tensions for pushing
    the chipmaker to invest overseas" <https://fortune.com/asia/
    2024/01/02/sacred-mountain-tsmc-taiwan-election-vp-debate-chips-
    semiconductors-taylor-swift/>. /Fortune Asia/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113092929/https://fortune.com/asia/
    2024/01/02/sacred-mountain-tsmc-taiwan-election-vp-debate-chips-
    semiconductors-taylor-swift/> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
118. *^ <#cite_ref-118>* "Taiwan's VP Candidates Debate Foreign Policy,
    Energy and Economics" <https://www.taiwanplus.com/news/taiwan-talks/
    taiwan-china-cross-strait-tensions/240101010/taiwans-vp-candidates-
    debate-foreign-policy-energy-and-economics>. /TaiwanPlus/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113092929/https://
    www.taiwanplus.com/news/taiwan-talks/taiwan-china-cross-strait-
    tensions/240101010/taiwans-vp-candidates-debate-foreign-policy-
    energy-and-economics> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
119. *^ <#cite_ref-119>* Hioe, Brian (25 December 2023). "Vice
    Presidential Policy Presentation Sees Numerous Gaffes, Clear Win by
    Hsiao" <https://newbloommag.net/2023/12/25/vp-policy-presentation/
    >. /New Bloom Magazine/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113092929/https://newbloommag.net/2023/12/25/vp-policy-
    presentation/> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
120. *^ <#cite_ref-120>* "Taiwan Election 2024 Five Key Facts You Need to
    Know" <https://gotimesnews.com/taiwan-election-2024-five-key-facts/
    >. 13 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113114626/https://gotimesnews.com/taiwan-election-2024-five-
    key-facts/> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
121. *^ <#cite_ref-121>* "Taiwan elections latest: Early results stream
    in after polls close" <https://asia.nikkei.com/Politics/Taiwan-
    elections/Taiwan-elections-latest-Early-results-stream-in-after-
    polls-close>. /Nikkei Asia/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113093725/https://asia.nikkei.com/Politics/Taiwan-elections/
    Taiwan-elections-latest-Early-results-stream-in-after-polls-close>
    from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
122. *^ <#cite_ref-122>* /How China's intimidation looms over Taiwan's
    crucial election/ <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x-2_U515W6M>,
    archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113093725/https://
    www.youtube.com/watch?v=x-2_U515W6M> from the original on 13 January
    2024, retrieved 13 January 2024
123. *^ <#cite_ref-123>* Keating, Joshua (6 January 2024). "Why Taiwan is
    2024's first big election to watch" <https://www.vox.com/world-
    politics/2024/1/6/24026992/taiwan-china-president-war-xi-jinping-
    asia-semiconductors-chips>. /Vox/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113051845/https://www.vox.com/world-
    politics/2024/1/6/24026992/taiwan-china-president-war-xi-jinping-
    asia-semiconductors-chips> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
124. *^ <#cite_ref-124>* Gan, Nectar (11 January 2024). "This 2024
    presidential election could change the world – and it's not
    happening in the US" <https://www.cnn.com/2024/01/11/asia/taiwan-
    election-explainer-intl-hnk/index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113093725/https://www.cnn.com/2024/01/11/
    asia/taiwan-election-explainer-intl-hnk/index.html> from the
    original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
125. *^ <#cite_ref-125>* "results" <https://www.taiwanplus.com/taiwan-
    election-2024/results?title=President>. /TaiwanPlus/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113140733/https://
    www.taiwanplus.com/taiwan-election-2024/results?title=President>
    from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
126. *^ <#cite_ref-126>* "KMT's Hou concedes defeat in Taiwan
    presidential election" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202401130010>. /Focus Taiwan/. 13 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113122236/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202401130010> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
127. *^ <#cite_ref-127>* "TPP's Ko urges supporters not to lose faith
    after election defeat" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202401130012>. /Focus Taiwan/. 13 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113131918/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202401130012> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
128. *^ <#cite_ref-128>* "'Major reforms' needed for KMT to return to
    power: Ex-VP candidate" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202401150023>. /Focus Taiwan/. 15 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240116020514/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/
    202401150023> from the original on 16 January 2024. Retrieved 16
    January 2024.
129. *^ <#cite_ref-129>* "Opposition split key to presidential election
    defeat: KMT" <https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202401170019>. /Focus
    Taiwan/. 17 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240117152050/https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202401170019> from
    the original on 17 January 2024. Retrieved 17 January 2024.
130. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-ajlai_130-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    ajlai_130-1> "Taiwan ruling party's Lai wins presidential election"
    <https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2024/1/13/taiwan-ruling-partys-lai-
    wins-presidential-election>. /Al Jazeera/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113140201/https://www.aljazeera.com/news/
    2024/1/13/taiwan-ruling-partys-lai-wins-presidential-election> from
    the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
131. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-cnnlai_131-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    cnnlai_131-1> "Taiwan voters dismiss China warnings and hand ruling
    party a historic third consecutive presidential win" <https://
    edition.cnn.com/2024/01/13/asia/taiwan-presidential-election-
    results-intl-hnk/index.html>. /CNN/. 13 January 2024. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113144224/https://edition.cnn.com/
    2024/01/13/asia/taiwan-presidential-election-results-intl-hnk/
    index.html> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13
    January 2024.
132. *^ <#cite_ref-132>* "The world is witness to Taiwan's democracy -
    Tsai Ing-wen" <https://www.bbc.com/news/live/world-asia-67954619>. /
    BBC/. 13 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113223750/https://www.bbc.com/news/live/world-asia-67954619>
    from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 14 January 2024.
133. *^ <#cite_ref-133>* "China's Weibo Blocks Trending Taiwan Election
    Hashtag" <https://www.barrons.com/news/china-s-weibo-blocks-
    trending-taiwan-election-hashtag-2f617283?refsec=topics_afp-news>. /
    Barron's/. 13 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240113141515/https://www.barrons.com/news/china-s-weibo-blocks-
    trending-taiwan-election-hashtag-2f617283?refsec=topics_afp-news>
    from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
134. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-bbclai_134-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    bbclai_134-1> "Taiwan elects William Lai president in historic
    election" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-67920532>. /BBC/. 13
    January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113152259/
    https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-67920532> from the original on
    13 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
135. *^ <#cite_ref-135>* "MAC urges China to 'respect' Taiwan's election
    results" <https://focustaiwan.tw/cross-strait/202401140004>. /Focus
    Taiwan/. 14 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240114012559/https://focustaiwan.tw/cross-strait/202401140004>
    from the original on 14 January 2024. Retrieved 14 January 2024.
136. *^ <#cite_ref-136>* "Chinese Embassy in Tokyo criticizes Japan's
    message to Taiwanese president-elect" <https://www3.nhk.or.jp/
    nhkworld/en/news/20240114_20/>. /NHK/. 15 January 2024. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240115153729/https://www3.nhk.or.jp/
    nhkworld/en/news/20240114_20/> from the original on 15 January 2024.
    Retrieved 15 January 2024.
137. *^ <#cite_ref-137>* "Taiwan election: China says US 'gravely wrong'
    to congratulate new leader" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
    asia-67974541>. /BBC/. 15 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240115004920/https://www.bbc.com/news/world-
    asia-67974541> from the original on 15 January 2024. Retrieved 15
    January 2024.
138. *^ <#cite_ref-138>* "China deplores, opposes relevant countries
    issuing statements, "expressing congratulations" following elections
    in China's Taiwan region" <https://english.news.cn/20240115/
    d099186603cf4f44a378f9f82126cc0d/c.html>. /english.news.cn/. Xinhua
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xinhua>. 15 January 2024. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240115171648/https://english.news.cn/
    20240115/d099186603cf4f44a378f9f82126cc0d/c.html> from the original
    on 15 January 2024.
139. *^ <#cite_ref-139>* "Marcos congratulates Taiwan's President-elect
    Lai Ching-te; China summons PH envoy" <https://
    www.cnnphilippines.com/news/2024/1/16/marcos-on-taiwan-presidential-
    election.html>. /CNN Philippines/. 16 January 2024. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240115235034/https://
    www.cnnphilippines.com/news/2024/1/16/marcos-on-taiwan-presidential-
    election.html> from the original on 15 January 2024. Retrieved 16
    January 2024.
140. *^ <#cite_ref-140>* "Taiwan tracks 8 Chinese military aircraft, 6
    naval ships on election day" <https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/
    news/defence/taiwan-tracks-8-chinese-military-aircraft-6-naval-
    ships-on-election-day/articleshow/106817129.cms?from=mdr>. /The
    Economic Times/. 13 January 2024. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0013-0389 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0013-0389>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240116041841/
    https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/defence/taiwan-tracks-8-
    chinese-military-aircraft-6-naval-ships-on-election-day/articleshow/
    106817129.cms?from=mdr> from the original on 16 January 2024.
    Retrieved 16 January 2024.
141. *^ <#cite_ref-141>* Kuo, L (14 January 2024). "After attempts to
    meddle in Taiwan's elections fail, China takes stock" <https://
    www.washingtonpost.com/world/2024/01/14/china-taiwan-election-2024/
    >. /The Washington Post/. Retrieved 16 January 2024.
142. *^ <#cite_ref-142>* "Taiwan: China put pressure on Philippines after
    Marcos' congratulations" <https://www.gmanetwork.com/news/
    topstories/nation/895291/taiwan-china-put-pressure-on-philippines-
    after-marcos-congratulations/story/>. /GMA News/. 25 January 2024.
    Retrieved 25 January 2024.
143. *^ <#cite_ref-143>* "Australia backs Taiwan exercising 'democratic
    rights'" <https://www.canberratimes.com.au/story/8485687/australia-
    backs-taiwan-exercising-democratic-rights/>. /The Canberra Times/.
    14 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240114033221/https://www.canberratimes.com.au/story/8485687/
    australia-backs-taiwan-exercising-democratic-rights/> from the
    original on 14 January 2024. Retrieved 13 January 2024.
144. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-ajworld_144-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    ajworld_144-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-ajworld_144-2> "World reacts to
    Taiwan election as China says reunification 'inevitable'" <https://
    www.aljazeera.com/news/2024/1/13/world-reacts-to-taiwan-election-as-
    china-says-reunification>. /Al Jazeera/. 14 January 2024. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240114025935/https://
    www.aljazeera.com/news/2024/1/13/world-reacts-to-taiwan-election-as-
    china-says-reunification> from the original on 14 January 2024.
    Retrieved 14 January 2024.
145. *^ <#cite_ref-145>* "World reactions to Taiwan election" <https://
    www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/world-reactions-taiwan-
    election-2024-01-14/>. /Reuters/. 14 January 2024. Retrieved 14
    January 2024.
146. *^ <#cite_ref-146>* "World reactions to Taiwan election" <https://
    www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/world-reactions-taiwan-
    election-2024-01-14/>. /Reuters/. 14 January 2024. Retrieved 14
    January 2024.
147. *^ <#cite_ref-147>* "Japan voices hope Taiwan issues to be resolved
    'peacefully'" <https://english.kyodonews.net/news/
    2024/01/9f8ba1318f8f-japan-voices-hope-taiwan-issues-to-be-resolved-
    peacefully.html>. /Kyodo News/. 13 January 2024. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240113143835/https://english.kyodonews.net/
    news/2024/01/9f8ba1318f8f-japan-voices-hope-taiwan-issues-to-be-
    resolved-peacefully.html> from the original on 13 January 2024.
    Retrieved 13 January 2024.
148. *^ <#cite_ref-148>* Davidson, Helen; Hawkins, Amy (15 January 2024).
    "Nauru to sever diplomatic ties with Taiwan in favour of China"
    <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/jan/15/nauru-to-sever-
    diplomatic-ties-with-taiwan-in-favour-of-china>. /The Guardian
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Guardian>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240115063447/https://www.theguardian.com/
    world/2024/jan/15/nauru-to-sever-diplomatic-ties-with-taiwan-in-
    favour-of-china> from the original on 15 January 2024. Retrieved 15
    January 2024.
149. *^ <#cite_ref-149>* "El Presidente de Paraguay felicita a Lai por su
    triunfo en los comicios de Taiwán" <https://www.swissinfo.ch/spa/
    taiw%C3%A1n-elecciones-paraguay_el-presidente-de-paraguay-felicita-
    a-lai-por-su-triunfo-en-los-comicios-de-taiw%C3%A1n/49125042> [The
    President of Paraguay congratulates Lai for his victory in the
    elections in Taiwan] (in Spanish). SwissInfo. 13 January 2024.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240114203805/https://
    www.swissinfo.ch/spa/taiw%C3%A1n-elecciones-paraguay_el-presidente-
    de-paraguay-felicita-a-lai-por-su-triunfo-en-los-comicios-de-
    taiw%C3%A1n/49125042> from the original on 14 January 2024.
    Retrieved 14 January 2024.
150. *^ <#cite_ref-150>* Cabico, Gaea Katreena (14 January 2024).
    "Philippines reaffirms adherence to One-China Policy after Taiwan
    elections" <https://qa.philstar.com/headlines/2024/01/14/2325786/
    philippines-reaffirms-adherence-one-china-policy-after-taiwan-
    elections>. /The Philippine Star/. Agence France-Presse. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240114141228/https://qa.philstar.com/
    headlines/2024/01/14/2325786/philippines-reaffirms-adherence-one-
    china-policy-after-taiwan-elections> from the original on 14 January
    2024. Retrieved 14 January 2024.
151. *^ <#cite_ref-151>* "PH affirms One-China Policy following Taiwan
    polls" <https://mb.com.ph/2024/1/14/ph-stresses-one-china-policy-
    following-taiwan-polls>. /Manila Bulletin/. 14 January 2024.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240115152740/https://
    mb.com.ph/2024/1/14/ph-stresses-one-china-policy-following-taiwan-
    polls> from the original on 15 January 2024. Retrieved 14 January 2024.
152. *^ <#cite_ref-152>* "Marcos congratulates Taiwan's President-elect
    Lai Ching-te, eyes stronger ties" <https://www.cnnphilippines.com/
    news/2024/1/16/marcos-on-taiwan-presidential-election.html>. /CNN
    Philippines/. 16 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20240115235034/https://www.cnnphilippines.com/news/2024/1/16/
    marcos-on-taiwan-presidential-election.html> from the original on 15
    January 2024. Retrieved 16 January 2024.
153. *^ <#cite_ref-153>* "Philippines reaffirms 'One China policy' after
    President Marcos congratulates Taiwan's Lai" <https://news.abs-
    cbn.com/news/01/16/24/ph-reaffirms-one-china-policy-after-marcos-
    congratulates-taiwans-lai>. /ABS-CBN/. 16 January 2024. Retrieved 16
    January 2024.
154. *^ <#cite_ref-154>* "Philippines Marcos says does not endorse Taiwan
    independence, seeks to avoid conflict" <https://www.reuters.com/
    world/asia-pacific/philippines-marcos-says-does-not-endorse-taiwan-
    independence-seeks-avoid-2024-01-23/>. Reuters. 23 January 2024.
    Retrieved 25 January 2024.
155. *^ <#cite_ref-155>* "Pressure on China destabilizes region, Russia
    says following Taiwan elections" <https://www3.nhk.or.jp/nhkworld/
    en/news/20240114_10/>. /NHK World/. Japan Broadcasting Corporation.
    14 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240114040515/https://www3.nhk.or.jp/nhkworld/en/news/20240114_10/>
    from the original on 14 January 2024. Retrieved 14 January 2024.
156. *^ <#cite_ref-156>* "Singapore congratulates Taiwan's William Lai on
    election victory" <https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/taiwan-
    election-singapore-mfa-congratulates-william-lai-president-victory-
    dpp-4046476>. /CNA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    CNA_(TV_network)>/. Mediacorp <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Mediacorp>. 14 January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240114040731/https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/taiwan-
    election-singapore-mfa-congratulates-william-lai-president-victory-
    dpp-4046476> from the original on 14 January 2024. Retrieved 14
    January 2024.
157. *^ <#cite_ref-157>* "Archived copy" <https://twitter.com/
    somalilandmfa/status/1746160301018411010>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240115010525/https://twitter.com/
    somalilandmfa/status/1746160301018411010> from the original on 15
    January 2024. Retrieved 15 January 2024.|{{cite web <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Cite_web>}}|: CS1 maint: archived
    copy as title (link <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Category:CS1_maint:_archived_copy_as_title>)
158. *^ <#cite_ref-158>* "S. Korea says it hopes for continued peace,
    stability across Taiwan Strait after presidential election"
    <https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20240114000851315>. /Yonhap/. 14
    January 2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240114055621/
    https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20240114000851315> from the original on
    14 January 2024. Retrieved 14 January 2024.
159. *^ <#cite_ref-159>* "U.S, Japan, EU congratulate Taiwan on
    elections, emphasize cross-strait peace" <https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202401140005>. /Focus Taiwan/. 14 January 2024. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240114015327/https://focustaiwan.tw/
    politics/202401140005> from the original on 14 January 2024.
    Retrieved 14 January 2024.
160. *^ <#cite_ref-160>* "Vietnam reaffirms adherence to 'One China'
    policy after Taiwan election" <https://tuoitrenews.vn/news/politics/
    20240115/vietnam-reaffirms-adherence-to-one-china-policy-after-
    taiwan-election/77847.html>. /Tuổi Trẻ/. 15 January 2024. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240117045608/https://tuoitrenews.vn/
    news/politics/20240115/vietnam-reaffirms-adherence-to-one-china-
    policy-after-taiwan-election/77847.html> from the original on 17
    January 2024. Retrieved 17 January 2024.
161. *^ <#cite_ref-161>* "EU Congratulates Taiwan Voters For 'Democratic
    Exercise'" <https://www.barrons.com/news/eu-congratulates-taiwan-
    voters-for-democratic-exercise-b93789fa>. /Barron's/. 13 January
    2024. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240113140640/https://
    www.barrons.com/news/eu-congratulates-taiwan-voters-for-democratic-
    exercise-b93789fa> from the original on 13 January 2024. Retrieved
    13 January 2024.

