  2024 United States presidential election

Contributors to Wikimedia projects
90–114 minut
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2024 United States presidential election
------------------------------------------------------------------------
← 2020 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_United_States_presidential_election> 	*November 5, 2024* 	/2028/ →

------------------------------------------------------------------------
538 members of the Electoral College <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_Electoral_College>
270 electoral votes needed to win
Opinion polls <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nationwide_opinion_polling_for_the_2024_United_States_presidential_election>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:ElectoralCollege2024.svg>

2024 electoral map, based on 2020 census <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_United_States_census>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
*Incumbent President*

Joe Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>
Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_(United_States)>

	

The *2024 United States presidential election* will be the 60th
quadrennial presidential election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_presidential_election>, scheduled for Tuesday, November 5,
2024.^[1] <#cite_note-va-1> Voters will elect a president <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_United_States> and vice president
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vice_President_of_the_United_States> for
a term of four years. Incumbent President Joe Biden <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>, a member of the Democratic Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Party_(United_States)>, is
running for re-election.^[2] <#cite_note-2> His predecessor Donald Trump
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>, a member of the Republican
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republican_Party_(United_States)>,
is running for re-election to a second, nonconsecutive term.^[3]
<#cite_note-3> If Trump wins, he would become the second president to
achieve nonconsecutive terms, after Grover Cleveland <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grover_Cleveland>. If both Biden and Trump are
nominated by their respective parties, it would mark the first
presidential rematch since 1956 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
1956_United_States_presidential_election>. A number of primary election
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_presidential_primary>
challengers have also declared their candidacies for the nomination of
both major parties. The winner of this election is scheduled to be
inaugurated <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2025_United_States_presidential_inauguration> on January 20, 2025. It
will occur at the same time as elections to the U.S. Senate <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_United_States_Senate_elections> and the U.S.
House <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_House_of_Representatives_elections>; several states
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._state> will also be holding
gubernatorial <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_gubernatorial_elections> and state legislative
elections.

Prior to the general election, political parties will choose their
nominees at nominating conventions <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_presidential_nominating_convention>. Delegates <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Delegate_(American_politics)#Presidential_conventions> to the nominating
conventions will be chosen by voters in state-level caucuses <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caucus> and primary elections <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_election>. In October 2023, anti-vaccine
activist <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-vaccine_activism>^[4]
<#cite_note-4> ^[5] <#cite_note-5> and environmental lawyer Robert F.
Kennedy Jr. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr.>
announced his run as an independent presidential candidate <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr._2024_presidential_campaign>.^[6] <#cite_note-6> By
the next month, Kennedy's polling was at the highest levels for a
candidate outside the two major parties since Ross Perot <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ross_Perot_1992_presidential_campaign> in 1992
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
1992_United_States_presidential_election>.^[7] <#cite_note-7> ^[8]
<#cite_note-8>

The Colorado Supreme Court <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Colorado_Supreme_Court>^[9] <#cite_note-9> and the Secretary of State of
Maine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secretary_of_State_of_Maine> have
ruled that Trump is ineligible to hold office <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/2024_presidential_eligibility_of_Donald_Trump>, and as such
disqualified from appearing on the ballot, due to his role in the
January 6 Capitol attack <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
January_6_Capitol_attack>. However, the rulings are stayed pending
appeal.^[10] <#cite_note-10> ^[11] <#cite_note-cbsdec28-11>

This is the first presidential election to occur after the overturning
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Dobbs_v._Jackson_Women%27s_Health_Organization> of /Roe v. Wade
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roe_v._Wade>/. Abortion access <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abortion-rights_movements>,^[12] <#cite_note-
Abortion-12> ^[13] <#cite_note-13> healthcare <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Healthcare_in_the_United_States>,^[14] <#cite_note-Colvin2023-14>
education <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Education_in_the_United_States>,^[15] <#cite_note-auto-15> the economy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_the_United_States>,^[16]
<#cite_note-16> foreign policy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Foreign_policy_of_the_United_States>,^[17] <#cite_note-17> LGBT rights
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_the_United_States>,^[18]
<#cite_note-18> and democracy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democracy>^[19] <#cite_note-AP_Democracy-19> ^[20] <#cite_note-
Politico_Dictator-20> are expected to be leading campaign issues.


    Background


      Procedure

Article Two <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Article_Two_of_the_United_States_Constitution> of the United States
Constitution <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Constitution>
states that for a person to serve as president, the individual must be a
natural-born citizen of the United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Natural-born-citizen_clause_(United_States)>, be at least 35 years
old, and have been a United States resident for at least 14 years. The
Twenty-second Amendment <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty-
second_Amendment> forbids any person from being elected president more
than twice. Major party candidates seek the nomination through a series
of primary elections <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_election>
that select the delegates who choose the candidate at the party's
national convention. Each party's national convention chooses a vice
presidential running mate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Running_mate>
to form that party's ticket <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ticket_(election)>. The nominee for president usually picks the running
mate, who is then ratified by the delegates at the party's convention.

The general election in November is an indirect election, in which
voters cast ballots for a slate of members of the Electoral College
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electoral_College_(United_States)>; these
electors then directly elect the president and vice president.^[21]
<#cite_note-Telegraph2012-21> Election offices are dealing with
increased workloads and public scrutiny, so officials in many key states
have sought for more funds to hire more personnel, improve security, and
extend training. This demand emerges at a moment when numerous election
offices are dealing with an increase in retirements and a flood of
public record demands, owing in part to the electoral mistrust planted
by former President Donald Trump's loss in the 2020 election. Both Biden
and Trump are running for president in 2024, suggesting a potential
rematch of the 2020 election, which would be the first presidential
rematch since 1956 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
1956_United_States_presidential_election>.^[22] <#cite_note-22> If Trump
is elected, he would become the second president to win a second non-
consecutive term, joining Grover Cleveland <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Grover_Cleveland> who did so in 1892 <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/1892_United_States_presidential_election>.^[23] <#cite_note-23>


      Election interference

Donald Trump did not concede to Joe Biden in the 2020 presidential
election, citing false claims of voter fraud <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Voter_fraud>, and has continued denying the election results as of
January 2024.^[24] <#cite_note-24> ^[25] <#cite_note-25> Election
security experts have warned that officials who deny the legitimacy of
the 2020 presidential election may attempt to impede the voting process
or refuse to certify the 2024 election results.^[26] <#cite_note-26>

Polling before the election has indicated profound dissatisfaction with
the state of American democracy.^[27] <#cite_note-:7-27> ^[28]
<#cite_note-28> ^[29] <#cite_note-29> Liberals <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_liberalism_in_the_United_States> tend to
believe that conservatives <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Conservatism_in_the_United_States> are threatening the country with
autocratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autocracy> tendencies and
their attempts to overturn the 2020 election.^[30] <#cite_note-30> Many
Republicans are concerned with attempts to prevent former President
Trump from holding public office by any means necessary, including
impeachment and indictment.^[31] <#cite_note-31>


      Electoral map


        Effects of the 2020 census

This will be the first U.S. presidential election to occur after the
reapportionment <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_congressional_apportionment#Reapportionment> of votes in
the United States Electoral College <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_Electoral_College> following the 2020 United States census
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_United_States_census>.^[32]
<#cite_note-32> ^[33] <#cite_note-33> If the results of the 2020
election were to stay the same (which has never occurred in the history
of presidential elections) in 2024, Democrats would have 303 electoral
votes against the Republicans' 235, a slight change from Biden's 306
electoral votes and Trump's 232, meaning that Democrats lost a net of 3
electoral votes to the reapportionment process. This apportionment of
electoral college votes will remain only through the 2028 election.
Reapportionment will be conducted again after the 2030 United States
census.^[34] <#cite_note-34>


        Historical background

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Red_states_and_blue_states_2016-2020.svg>
Expected partisan lean of the 50 U.S. states and the District of
Columbia on the presidential level. The shading of each state denotes
the winner's two-party vote share, averaged between the 2016 and 2020
presidential elections. States that flipped in 2020 are colored gray.

In recent presidential elections, most states are not competitive due to
demographics keeping them solidly behind one of the major parties.
Because of the nature of the Electoral College <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Electoral_College>, this means that
the various swing states <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swing_states> —
competitive states that "swing" between the Democratic and Republican
parties — are vital to winning the presidency. As of now, these include
states in the Rust Belt <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rust_Belt>, such
as Wisconsin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wisconsin>, Michigan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michigan>, and Pennsylvania <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pennsylvania>, and states in the Sun Belt
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_Belt>, such as Nevada <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nevada>, Arizona <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Arizona>, and Georgia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Georgia_(U.S._state)>.^[35] <#cite_note-35> North Carolina <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Carolina> may also be considered a
battleground state, due to the close result in the previous presidential
election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_United_States_presidential_election_in_North_Carolina>, in which
Trump only won by 1.34%.^[36] <#cite_note-36> Due to gradual demographic
shifts, some former swing states such as Iowa <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Iowa>, Ohio <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ohio> and Florida
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida> have shifted significantly
towards the Republicans, favoring them in future statewide and local
elections. Meanwhile, states like Colorado <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Colorado>, New Mexico <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Mexico>
and Virginia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virginia> have moved
noticeably towards the Democrats, and the party has become the dominant
political force there.^[37] <#cite_note-37> ^[38] <#cite_note-38> ^[39]
<#cite_note-39>

The Democratic electoral coalition, securing the "blue states" for
Democratic presidential candidates, performs best among Jewish <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Jews_in_politics> and Black voters
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/African_Americans>;^[40] <#cite_note-
Levitz-2022-40> ^[41] <#cite_note-41> whites who have attended
college^[42] <#cite_note-42> or live in urban areas <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urban_area>.^[43] <#cite_note-Munis-2022-43>
Working class <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_class> voters were
also a mainstay of the Democratic coalition since the days of the New
Deal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Deal_coalition>, but since the
1970s, many have defected to Republicans as the Democratic Party moved
significantly to the left on cultural issues.^[44] <#cite_note-44>
Conversely, the traditional Republican coalition that dominates many
"red states" is mainly composed of rural white voters, evangelicals, the
elderly, and non-college educated voters.^[45] <#cite_note-45>
Republicans have also historically performed well with suburban
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suburban>, middle class <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middle_class> voters since the 1950s, but this
bloc has drifted away from them in recent years due to the rise of the
Tea Party movement <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tea_Party_movement>
and later the Make America Great Again <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Make_America_Great_Again> movement.^[46] <#cite_note-46> The
acceleration of this trend has been credited with tipping the 2020
presidential election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2020_United_States_presidential_election> in favor of Democrat Joe Biden
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>, because the incumbent Trump
was historically unpopular in the suburbs for a Republican candidate,
underperforming there significantly.^[47] <#cite_note-47>

According to apparent trends in some recent polling, generational and
racial polarization appear to have significantly decreased, with
Democratic strength among Hispanic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Hispanic_and_Latino_Americans>, Asian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Asian_Americans>, Arab <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arab_Americans>,
and youth voters <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Youth_vote_in_the_United_States> appearing to have eroded, and
Republicans' durability with whites and voters over the age of 65 also
appearing to be slipping.^[48] <#cite_note-48> ^[49] <#cite_note-49>
^[50] <#cite_note-50> ^[51] <#cite_note-51> ^[52] <#cite_note-52>
However, some political analysts^[53] <#cite_note-53> have argued that
these apparent trends in polling are not representative of the actual
electorate, and are a polling mirage resulting from poor sampling months
before the election, large numbers of voters who do not think the
election will be between Biden and Trump,^[54] <#cite_note-54> and heavy
non-response bias.^[55] <#cite_note-55> ^[56] <#cite_note-56> ^[57]
<#cite_note-57> ^[58] <#cite_note-58> Other pollsters, such as YouGov,
have shown no statistically significant generational or racial
depolarization among the electorate.^[59] <#cite_note-59> ^[60]
<#cite_note-60>


      Impact of third-party voting

While independent/third-party candidates often do better in polls than
actual election performance,^[61] <#cite_note-61> early polling suggests
there could be a strong showing for third-party candidates in 2024.
Third-party candidates currently have the strongest showing in polls
since Ross Perot <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ross_Perot>'s high poll
numbers in the 1990s.^[62] <#cite_note-62> Polls are especially high for
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr.>, who dropped out of the Democratic Party
primaries <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_Democratic_Party_presidential_primaries> to run as an
independent.^[63] <#cite_note-63>


    Campaign issues


      Abortion

Abortion access <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abortion-
rights_movements> is expected to be a key topic during the campaign.
This is the first presidential election to be held in the aftermath of
two major court rulings that affected access to abortion <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abortion>. The first is the 2022 /Dobbs v. Jackson
Women's Health Organization <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Dobbs_v._Jackson_Women%27s_Health_Organization>/ decision, in which the
United States Supreme Court overturned /Roe v. Wade <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roe_v._Wade>/, leaving abortion law entirely to
the states, including bans on abortion.^[12] <#cite_note-Abortion-12>
The second is the 2023 /Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine v. U.S. Food
and Drug Administration <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Alliance_for_Hippocratic_Medicine_v._U.S._Food_and_Drug_Administration>/, in which a federal judge in northwest Texas overturned the FDA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_and_Drug_Administration>'s approval of mifepristone <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mifepristone> in 2000, which could potentially pull the medication from the market if upheld by higher courts.^[64] <#cite_note-Kimball-2023-64> Both rulings have received strong support from Republican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republican_Party_(United_States)> politicians and lawmakers.^[12] <#cite_note-Abortion-12> ^[64] <#cite_note-Kimball-2023-64>

Democrats <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_(United_States)> are predominantly supportive of
viewing abortion access as a right <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Abortion-rights_movements>^[65] <#cite_note-65> while Republican
politicians generally favor significantly restricting the legality of
abortion <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Abortion_law_in_the_United_States_by_state>.^[66] <#cite_note-66> By
April 2023, a large majority of Republican <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Republican_Party_(United_States)>-controlled states had passed
near-total bans on abortion <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abortion>,
rendering it "largely illegal" throughout much of the United States
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Abortion_law_in_the_United_States_by_state>. According to the Kaiser
Family Foundation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Kaiser_Family_Foundation>, there are 15 states that have /de jure/ early
stage bans on abortion without exceptions for rape <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pregnancy_from_rape> or incest <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incest>.^[12] <#cite_note-Abortion-12>


      Border security and immigration

Polling has shown that border security and immigration are among the top
issues concerning potential voters in the 2024 presidential
election.^[67] <#cite_note-67> ^[68] <#cite_note-68> In 2023 and 2024, a
surge of migrants entering the country through the United States' border
with Mexico occurred.^[69] <#cite_note-69> In response to the influx of
migrants, Republican controlled states such as Texas and Florida have
been busing migrants to major Democrat controlled sanctuary cities such
as New York and Chicago.^[70] <#cite_note-npr-asylum-70> ^[71]
<#cite_note-71> Donald Trump has stated that if elected, he would
increase deportations, send the U.S. military to the border, expand ICE
detentions, deputize local law enforcement to handle border security,
increase Customs and Border Patrol funding as well as finish building
the wall on the southern border.^[70] <#cite_note-npr-asylum-70> The
Biden administration has undertaken a policy of providing temporary
protections to migrants from certain countries such as Venezuela,
Ukraine, Nicaragua, Cuba and Haiti.^[70] <#cite_note-npr-asylum-70>
Robert Kennedy, Jr. has stated that he supports securing the border and
the actions taken by states to secure it themselves in the absence of
Federal action to do so.^[72] <#cite_note-72>


      Democracy

Joe Biden is expected to frame the election as a battle for democracy,
which was similar to his framing of contemporary geopolitics as "the
battle between democracy and autocracy."^[73] <#cite_note-NYT_DvA-73>
Biden's rhetoric previously cited democracy and "a battle for the soul
of our nation" as the key message of his 2020 presidential campaign, and
uses it as a recurring element in his rhetoric since the 2020
presidential election.^[20] <#cite_note-Politico_Dictator-20>

Donald Trump's 2024 campaign has been criticized by the media for making
increasingly violent and authoritarian statements,^[75] <#cite_note-
NYT_Authoritarian_Bent-75> ^[76] <#cite_note-Guardian_authoritarian-76>
which some believe the Trump campaign is intentionally leaning
into.^[77] <#cite_note-NYT_Dictator_Talk-77> Trump's previous comments
suggesting he can "terminate" the Constitution to reverse his election
loss,^[78] <#cite_note-Snopes_Constitution-78> ^[79] <#cite_note-79> his
claim that he would only be a dictator on "day one" of his presidency
and not after,^[a] <#cite_note-86> his promise to use the Justice
Department to go after his political enemies,^[86] <#cite_note-
NYT_Justice_Dpt-87> attempts to overturn the 2020 United States
presidential election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Attempts_to_overturn_the_2020_United_States_presidential_election>,
continued Republican efforts to restrict voting following the 2020
presidential election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Republican_efforts_to_restrict_voting_following_the_2020_presidential_election>, and Trump's baseless predictions of vote fraud in the 2024 election,^[87] <#cite_note-88> have raised concerns over the state of democracy in America.^[77] <#cite_note-NYT_Dictator_Talk-77> ^[88] <#cite_note-CNN_Vote_Restrict-89> ^[89] <#cite_note-538_Elections_Impact-90> ^[90] <#cite_note-91>

Democracy is expected to be a large issue in the 2024 election. An AP-
NORC poll of 1,074 adults conducted between November 30 to December 4,
2023, found that 62% of adults said democracy could be at risk depending
on who wins the next election.^[19] <#cite_note-AP_Democracy-19>


      Economic issues

Voters consistently cite economic issues as their top issue for the 2024
election.^[91] <#cite_note-92> ^[92] <#cite_note-93> ^[93]
<#cite_note-94> The COVID-19 pandemic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
COVID-19_pandemic_in_the_United_States> left behind significant economic
effects <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Economic_impact_of_the_COVID-19_pandemic> which are likely to persist
into 2024.^[94] <#cite_note-95> A period of high inflation <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021%E2%80%932023_inflation_surge> began in 2021,
caused by a confluence of events including the pandemic and a supply-
chain crisis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2021%E2%80%932023_global_supply_chain_crisis>, which was then heightened
by economic effects <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Economic_impact_of_the_Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine> of Russia's invasion
of Ukraine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine>
in 2022.^[95] <#cite_note-deloitte-96> ^[96] <#cite_note-97> Opinion
polling over Biden's handling of the economy <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Economic_policy_of_the_Joe_Biden_administration> has consistently
been negative since late 2021.^[97] <#cite_note-98>

Women were particularly affected by the economic downturn in the wake of
the pandemic, particularly those who left their work for childcare
responsibilities.^[98] <#cite_note-99> Temporary childcare measures,
including an expanded child tax credit <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Child_tax_credit_(United_States)> as part of the American Rescue Plan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Rescue_Plan_Act_of_2021>, were
introduced as methods designed to help the economic situation of
parents, but these would expire before the 2024 election.^[99]
<#cite_note-100>


      Education

Under the Biden administration, several rounds of student loan <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Student_loans_in_the_United_States> forgiveness
have been issued, totaling over $32 billion.^[100] <#cite_note-101> In
August 2022, a plan was unveiled that would eliminate $10,000 in student
loan debt for single graduates making less than $125,000 or married
couples making less than $250,000.^[101] <#cite_note-102> $20,000 would
have been eliminated for borrowers of Pell Grants <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pell_Grant>, a program aimed at providing need-
based assistance.^[102] <#cite_note-103> In June 2023, this plan was
overturned in the Supreme Court decision /Biden v. Nebraska <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biden_v._Nebraska>/.^[103] <#cite_note-104> ^[104]
<#cite_note-105> Biden intends to implement new methods of student debt
relief, working around the Supreme Court decision.^[105]
<#cite_note-106> Biden stated that offering universal pre-kindergarten
services as well as caregiver support would be a priority of a second
term.^[106] <#cite_note-107>

Some Republican candidates and prospective candidates see education as a
winning campaign issue. Dozens of states have created laws preventing
the instruction of critical race theory <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Critical_race_theory>, an academic discipline focused on the examination
of racial inequality. Supporters of the laws claim that conversations
about racial identity are not appropriate for a school
environment.^[107] <#cite_note-108> ^[108] <#cite_note-109> ^[15]
<#cite_note-auto-15> Critics of the laws against critical race theory
claim they whitewash <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Whitewashing_(censorship)> American history and act as memory laws
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memory_laws> to rewrite public memory of
U.S. history.^[109] <#cite_note-110>


      Foreign policy

The ongoing Israel–Hamas war <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2023_Israel%E2%80%93Hamas_war> and Russian invasion of Ukraine <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine> are expected to be
significant issues of the election.^[110] <#cite_note-111>

The United States has provided significant military and humanitarian aid
to Ukraine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_and_the_Russian_invasion_of_Ukraine> throughout the
Russian invasion of Ukraine.^[111] <#cite_note-112> ^[112]
<#cite_note-113> ^[113] <#cite_note-114> Democratic politicians and a
significant number of Republican politicians have supported this plan,
arguing that the United States has a significant role to play in
"protecting democracy and fighting Russian aggression."^[114]
<#cite_note-115> Some candidates, including Ron DeSantis and Donald
Trump, claim that Ukraine and suppressing Russian intervention should
not be a significant interest to the United States, and that the plan
should be more limited.^[115] <#cite_note-116> Vivek Ramaswamy <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vivek_Ramaswamy> favors ending U.S. military aid
to Ukraine and would recognize Russian annexed territories.^[116]
<#cite_note-117>

During the Israel–Hamas war, Biden announced "unequivocal" military
support for Israel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israel>, and condemned
the actions of Hamas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamas> and other
Palestinian militants as terrorism.^[117] <#cite_note-118> Biden has
requested 10.6 billion dollars of aid for Israel to Congress.^[118]
<#cite_note-119> Kennedy condemned Hamas' attacks on Israeli civilians
and declared support for aid to Israel.^[119] <#cite_note-120> 74% of
Jewish voters have expressed approval of Joe Biden's support for
Israel.^[120] <#cite_note-121> Biden's support for Israel has greatly
damaged Muslim support for Democrats in polling.^[121] <#cite_note-122>
Polling has indicated a significant divide between elite opinion of the
Israel–Hamas war, which has overwhelmingly taken the side of Israel, and
the general public.^[122] <#cite_note-:11-123> A plurality of Americans
oppose American military aid to Israel and believe that the United
States "should be a neutral mediator" in the Israel-Palestinian conflict
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israeli%E2%80%93Palestinian_conflict>
rather than taking a side.^[122] <#cite_note-:11-123> Among voters 18–
34, 66 percent disapprove of Israel's conduct during the war and 20
percent approve, while a majority take the side of Palestinians
predominately in the conflict.^[123] <#cite_note-124>


      Healthcare issues

Trump has made repealing the Affordable Care Act, better known as
Obamacare, a key issue of the 2024 election.^[14] <#cite_note-
Colvin2023-14> The issue of healthcare <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Universal_health_care> and drug policy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Drug_policy>, including whether the United States should shift to a
universal healthcare system <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Universal_health_care>,^[124] <#cite_note-125> and the COVID-19 pandemic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COVID-19_pandemic> is expected to play a
key role in the 2024 presidential election.^[125] <#cite_note-126>
According to /Deseret News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Deseret_News>/, Kennedy has attempted to moderate his anti-vaccine
position before the election, stating that he is not against all
vaccines, and telling Bill Maher <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bill_Maher> in an interview that "all I'm saying" is that "let's test
[vaccines] the way we test other medicines. That does not seem
unreasonable".^[126] <#cite_note-:0-127> West is running on a platform
of medicare-for-all.^[127] <#cite_note-Benson2023-128>


      LGBT rights

In recent years, conservative politicians in state legislatures have
introduced a large and growing number of bills that restrict the rights
of LGBT people, especially transgender people.^[128] <#cite_note-129>
^[129] <#cite_note-130>

In his capacity as president, Biden endorsed and enacted the landmark
Respect for Marriage Act <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Respect_for_Marriage_Act>, designed to safeguard both same-sex and
interracial marriages. Additionally, he has spent his presidency urging
Congress to pass the Equality Act <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Equality_Act_(United_States)>, legislation aiming to extend the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Civil_Rights_Act_of_1964> to offer protection on the basis of gender
identity and sexual orientation across various domains such as in the
workplace, housing, and health care sectors. In 2023, Biden directed the
federal government to provide strategies to states on how to enhance
access to healthcare and suicide prevention resources for the LGBT
community.^[130] <#cite_note-131>

In a February 2023 campaign message, Donald Trump said that if
reelected, he would enact a federal law that would recognize only two
genders, claimed that being transgender is a concept made up by "the
radical left", and would enact nearly a dozen policies that would target
transgender Americans. Ron DeSantis has signed several anti-LGBT laws as
Governor of Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Florida>,
including the controversial Florida Parental Rights in Education Act
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Florida_Parental_Rights_in_Education_Act>, referred to by critics as the
"Don't Say Gay" law, which prohibits speaking about sexual orientation
and gender identity in Florida public schools.^[131] <#cite_note-132>


    Democratic Party

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Democratic_Party_presidential_primaries_results_by_popular_vote,_2024.svg>
Current popular vote results of the 2024 Democratic presidential primaries

On April 25, 2023, President Joe Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Joe_Biden> announced his run for re-election, keeping Vice President
Kamala Harris <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kamala_Harris> as his
running mate.^[132] <#cite_note-BidenRunning-133> ^[133]
<#cite_note-134> Consequently, Republicans have intensified their
criticism of Harris since Biden declared his intention to run for
office.^[134] <#cite_note-135> During late 2021, as Biden was facing low
approval ratings, there was speculation that he would not seek re-
election,^[135] <#cite_note-136> and some prominent Democrats
(Representatives <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_House_of_Representatives> Carolyn Maloney <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carolyn_Maloney>, Tim Ryan <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Ryan_(Ohio_politician)> and former
Representative Joe Cunningham <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Joe_Cunningham_(American_politician)>) publicly urged Biden not to
run.^[136] <#cite_note-off_the_record-137> ^[137] <#cite_note-
due_to_age-138> ^[138] <#cite_note-joining-139> In addition to Biden's
unpopularity, many are concerned about his age; he was the oldest person
to assume the office <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
List_of_presidents_of_the_United_States_by_age> at age 78 and would be
82 at the end of his first term. If re-elected, he would be 86 at the
end of his second term.^[139] <#cite_note-140> According to an NBC poll
released in April 2023, 70 percent of Americans—including 51 percent of
Democrats—believe Biden should not run for a second term. Almost half
said it was because of his age. According to the FiveThirtyEight
national polling average, Biden's current approval rating is 41 percent,
while 55 percent disapprove.^[140] <#cite_note-141> There was also
speculation that Biden may face a primary challenge from a member of the
Democratic Party's progressive faction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Factions_in_the_Democratic_Party_(United_States)#Progressives>.^[141]
<#cite_note-142> ^[142] <#cite_note-143> After Democrats outperformed
expectations in the 2022 midterm elections <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/2022_United_States_elections>, many believed the chances that Biden
would run for and win his party's nomination had increased.^[143]
<#cite_note-144>

Author Marianne Williamson <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Marianne_Williamson> announced her candidacy in February 2023, before
Biden announced his own candidacy for re-election. Williamson had
previously sought the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020.^[144]
<#cite_note-APMarianne-145> In April 2023, Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr.> announced his
candidacy for the nomination.^[145] <#cite_note-146> A member of the
Kennedy family <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kennedy_family>, he is an
environmental lawyer and he promotes conspiracy theories.^[146]
<#cite_note-147> ^[147] <#cite_note-148> On October 9, 2023, Kennedy
announced that he would be dropping out of the Democratic primary and
would instead run as an independent candidate.^[148] <#cite_note-149>
Representative Dean Phillips <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Dean_Phillips> announced his run against Biden on October 26.^[149]
<#cite_note-150>


      Declared candidates

Declared major candidates for the 2024 Democratic Party presidential
primaries Name 	Born 	Experience 	Home state 	Campaign
Announcement date 	States won 	Delegates won 	Total popular vote 	
Running mate 	Ref
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Joe_Biden_in_November_2023_(cropped).jpg>
*Joe Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>* 		November 20, 1942
(age 81)
Scranton, Pennsylvania <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Scranton,_Pennsylvania> 	*President of the United States <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_United_States>
(2021–present)*
Vice President of the United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vice_President_of_the_United_States>
(2009–2017)
U.S. Senator <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Senator> from Delaware
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delaware>
(1973–2009) 	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Flag_of_Delaware.svg>

Delaware <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delaware> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Biden-Harris_2024_logo.svg>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Joe_Biden_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

*April 25, 2023*
FEC filing^[150] <#cite_note-151>
Website <https://joebiden.com/>

	*1*
(NH <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_New_Hampshire_Democratic_presidential_primary>)^[151]
<#cite_note-152> ^[b] <#cite_note-153> 		77,061 	Kamala Harris <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kamala_Harris>^[152] <#cite_note-154> 	^[153]
<#cite_note-BidenRunningRematch-155>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Dean_Phillips_by_Gage_Skidmore_(cropped).jpg>
*Dean Phillips <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dean_Phillips>* 		January
20, 1969
(age 55)
Saint Paul, Minnesota <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Saint_Paul,_Minnesota> 	*U.S. Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/U.S._Representative> from MN-03 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Minnesota%27s_3rd_congressional_district>
(2019–present)*
CEO of Phillips Distilling Company <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Phillips_Distilling_Company>
(2000–2012) 	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Flag_of_Minnesota.svg>

Minnesota <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minnesota> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Dean_Phillips_Presidential_Campaign_Logo.svg>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Dean_Phillips_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

*October 26, 2023*
FEC filing^[154] <#cite_note-156>
Website <https://www.dean24.com/>

	/None/ 		23,977 	None 	^[155] <#cite_note-157>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Marianne_Williamson_(48541662667)_(cropped).jpg>
*Marianne Williamson <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Marianne_Williamson>* 		July 8, 1952
(age 71)
Houston, Texas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Houston> 	*Author*
Founder of Project Angel Food <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Project_Angel_Food>
Candidate for President in 2020 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Marianne_Williamson_2020_presidential_campaign> 	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Flag_of_California.svg>

California <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Marianne_Williamson_2024_presidential_campaign_logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Marianne_Williamson_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

*March 4, 2023*
FEC filing^[156] <#cite_note-158>
Website <https://marianne2024.com/>

	/None/ 		4,938 	None 	^[157] <#cite_note-williamson-159>


      Withdrawn candidates before the primaries

Withdrawn major candidates for the 2024 Democratic Party presidential
primaries Name 	Born 	Experience 	Home state 	Campaign
announced 	Campaign
suspended 	Campaign 	Total popular vote 	Ref.
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:RFK_Jr_4x5.jpg>
*Robert F.
Kennedy Jr. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr.>* 	
January 17, 1954
(age 70)
Washington, D.C. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington,_D.C.> 	
*Environmental lawyer*
Founder of Children's Health Defense <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Children%27s_Health_Defense>
Founder of Waterkeeper Alliance <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Waterkeeper_Alliance> 	 California <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
California> 	April 19, 2023 	October 9, 2023
/(running as an independent)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Original_Robert_Kennedy_Jr_for_President_Logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr._2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[158] <#cite_note-160> ^[159] <#cite_note-161>
Website <https://www.kennedy24.com/> 	435^[c] <#cite_note-RFK-162> 	
^[160] <#cite_note-163> ^[161] <#cite_note-164>


    Republican Party

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Republican_Party_presidential_primaries_results,_2024.svg>
Current results of the 2024 Republican presidential primaries

Donald Trump <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>, the then-
incumbent president, was defeated by Biden in the 2020 election and is
not term-limited to run again in 2024, making him the fifth ex-president
to seek a second non-consecutive term. If he wins, Trump would be the
second president to win a non-consecutive term, after Grover Cleveland
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grover_Cleveland> in 1892 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1892_United_States_presidential_election>.^[162]
<#cite_note-165> Trump filed a statement of candidacy with the Federal
Election Commission <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Federal_Election_Commission> (FEC) on November 15, 2022, and announced
his candidacy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Donald_Trump_2024_presidential_campaign> in a speech at Mar-a-Lago
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mar-a-Lago> the same day.^[163]
<#cite_note-166> ^[164] <#cite_note-167> Trump is considered an early
frontrunner for the Republican presidential nomination, following his
2024 campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Donald_Trump_2024_presidential_campaign> announcement on November 15,
2022.^[165] <#cite_note-:5a-168> Trump announced in March 2022 that if
he runs for re-election and wins the Republican presidential nomination,
his former vice president Mike Pence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mike_Pence> will not be his running mate.^[166] <#cite_note-169>

In March 2023, Trump was indicted <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Prosecution_of_Donald_Trump_in_New_York> over his hush money <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hush_money> payments to adult film actress Stormy
Daniels <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stormy_Daniels>.^[167]
<#cite_note-170> Trump was again indicted in June over his handling of
classified documents which contained materials sensitive to national
security. Trump has pleaded not guilty to all the charges related to
these indictments.^[168] <#cite_note-171> ^[169] <#cite_note-172>

Trump could become ineligible <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_presidential_eligibility_of_Donald_Trump> to be on the ballot in
Colorado <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Colorado>, with the Colorado
Supreme Court <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colorado_Supreme_Court>
ruling in its December 2023 decision /Anderson v. Griswold <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anderson_v._Griswold>/ that he violated the
Insurrection Clause <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insurrection_Clause>
of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Fourteenth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution> for his role in
the January 6 United States Capitol attack <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/January_6_United_States_Capitol_attack>, though the decision is
currently stayed.^[170] <#cite_note-173> The Supreme Court of the United
States <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Supreme_Court_of_the_United_States> agreed to hear Trump's appeal for
the Colorado case <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_v._Anderson>,
scheduling oral arguments for February 8.^[171] <#cite_note-174> Maine
Secretary of State Shenna Bellows <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Shenna_Bellows> also ruled in December 2023 that Trump cannot appear on
the ballot in Maine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Maine>, also citing the
Insurrection Clause.^[172] <#cite_note-175> ^[11] <#cite_note-
cbsdec28-11> The decision is stayed pending the outcome of the Supreme
Court's decision in the Colorado case, according to a ruling made by
Superior Court Justice Michaela Murphy on January 18. Murphy instructed
that Bellows should issue a new ruling within 30 days of the Supreme
Court rendering its decision.^[173] <#cite_note-176>

Florida Governor Ron DeSantis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ron_DeSantis> was seen as the main challenger to Trump for the
Republican nomination; he raised more campaign funds in the first half
of 2022 and had more favorable polling numbers than Trump by the end of
2022.^[174] <#cite_note-177> ^[175] <#cite_note-178> ^[176]
<#cite_note-179> On May 24, 2023, DeSantis announced his candidacy on
Twitter in an online conversation with Twitter CEO Elon Musk <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elon_Musk>. "American decline is not inevitable—it
is a choice...I am running for president of the United States to lead
our great American comeback", DeSantis added. His campaign stated to
have raised $1 million in the first hour following the announcement of
his candidacy.^[177] <#cite_note-180> Speaking on /Fox & Friends
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fox_%26_Friends>/, he stated that he
would "destroy leftism" in the United States.^[178] <#cite_note-181> At
the end of July 2023, FiveThirtyEight's national polling average of the
Republican primaries had Trump at 52 percent, and DeSantis at 15.^[179]
<#cite_note-182>

Former UN ambassador Nikki Haley <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nikki_Haley> has since gained ground and was in second place in New
Hampshire, in polling averages compiled by RealClearPolitics <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RealClearPolitics>, as of early November
2023.^[180] <#cite_note-183>


      Declared candidates

Declared major candidates for the 2024 Republican Party presidential
primaries Name 	Born 	Experience 	Home state 	Campaign
Announcement date 	Bound
delegates 	Contests
won 	Popular
vote 	Ref.
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Donald_Trump_2023_(cropped).jpg>
*Donald Trump <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>* 		June 14, 1946
(age 77)
Queens, New York <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queens> 	*President of
the United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
President_of_the_United_States>
(2017–2021)*
Chairman of The Trump Organization <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Trump_Organization>
(1971–2017) 	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Flag_of_Florida.svg>

Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida>^[d] <#cite_note-184> 	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Trump_MAGA_logo_2024.svg>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Donald_Trump_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*November 15, 2022*
FEC filing^[181] <#cite_note-185> ^[182] <#cite_note-186> ^[183]
<#cite_note-187>
Website <https://www.donaldjtrump.com/> 	32
(51.6%) 	*2*
(IA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_Iowa_Republican_presidential_caucuses>, NH <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_New_Hampshire_Republican_presidential_primary>) 	232,651 (53.5%) 	
^[184] <#cite_note-188>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Nikki_Haley_(53299447738)_(cropped).jpg>
*Nikki Haley <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikki_Haley>* 		January 20, 1972
(age 52)
Bamberg, South Carolina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bamberg,_South_Carolina> 	*Ambassador to the United Nations <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Ambassador_to_the_United_Nations>
(2017–2018)*
Governor of South Carolina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Governor_of_South_Carolina>
(2011–2017)
South Carolina State Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Carolina_House_of_Representatives>
(2005–2011) 	
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Flag_of_South_Carolina.svg>

South Carolina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Carolina> 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Nikki_Haley_for_President_logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Nikki_Haley_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
*February 14, 2023*
FEC filing^[185] <#cite_note-189>
Website <https://nikkihaley.com/> 	17
(29.0%) 	/None/ 	161,376 (37.1%) 	^[186] <#cite_note-190>


      Withdrew during the primaries

Withdrawn major candidates for the 2024 Republican Party presidential
primaries Name 	Born 	Experience 	Home state 	Campaign
announced 	Campaign
suspended 	Campaign 	Bound
delegates 	Popular
vote 	Ref.
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Ron_DeSantis_(53299142646)_(cropped).jpg>
*Ron DeSantis <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ron_DeSantis>* 		September
14, 1978
(age 45)
Jacksonville, Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Jacksonville,_Florida> 	*Governor of Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Governor_of_Florida>
(2019–present)*
U.S. Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Representative>
from FL-06 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Florida%27s_6th_congressional_district>
(2013–2018) 	 Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida> 	May 24,
2023 	January 21, 2024
/(endorsed Trump)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Ron_DeSantis_2024_(DeSantis_for_President,_logo).svg>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Ron_DeSantis_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[187] <#cite_note-191> ^[188] <#cite_note-192> ^[189]
<#cite_note-193>
Website <https://rondesantis.com/> 	9
(14.5%) 	25,661 (5.9%) 	^[190] <#cite_note-194>
^[191] <#cite_note-195>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Asa_Hutchinson_by_Gage_Skidmore_(cropped).jpg>
*Asa Hutchinson <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asa_Hutchinson>* 		
December 3, 1950
(age 73)
Bentonville, Arkansas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Bentonville,_Arkansas> 	*Governor of Arkansas <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Governor_of_Arkansas>
(2015–2023)*
Under Secretary of Homeland Security <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_Department_of_Homeland_Security#Structure>
(2003–2005)
Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Administrator_of_the_Drug_Enforcement_Administration>
(2001–2003)
	 Arkansas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arkansas> 	April 26, 2023 	
January 16, 2024
/(endorsed Haley)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Asa_Hutchinson_2024_campaign_logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Asa_Hutchinson_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[192] <#cite_note-Statement_of_Candidacy-196>
Website <https://www.asa2024.com/> 	0
(0.0%) 	299 (0.1%) 	^[193] <#cite_note-197>
^[194] <#cite_note-hutchinson_suspends-198>
^[195] <#cite_note-199>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Vivek_Ramaswamy_by_Gage_Skidmore_(cropped).jpg>
*Vivek Ramaswamy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vivek_Ramaswamy>* 		
August 9, 1985
(age 38)
Cincinnati, Ohio <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cincinnati> 	*Executive
chairman of Strive Asset Management <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Strive_Asset_Management>
(2022–2023)*
CEO of Roivant Sciences <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roivant_Sciences>
(2014–2021) 	 Ohio <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ohio> 	February 21,
2023 	January 15, 2024
/(endorsed Trump)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Vivek_2024_Logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vivek_Ramaswamy_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[196] <#cite_note-200> ^[197] <#cite_note-201>
Website <https://www.vivek2024.com/> 	3
(4.8%) 	9,282 (2.1%) 	^[198] <#cite_note-202>
^[199] <#cite_note-aligned-203>
^[200] <#cite_note-204>
^[201] <#cite_note-205>


      Withdrawn candidates before the primaries

Withdrawn major candidates for the 2024 Republican Party presidential
primaries Name 	Born 	Experience 	Home state 	Campaign
announced 	Campaign
suspended 	Campaign 	Popular vote total 	Ref.
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Chris_Christie_(53297980082)_(double_cropped).jpg>
*Chris Christie <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chris_Christie>* 	
September 6, 1962
(age 61)
Newark, New Jersey <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newark,_New_Jersey> 	
*Governor of New Jersey <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Governor_of_New_Jersey>
(2010–2018)*
Candidate for president in 2016 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Chris_Christie_2016_presidential_campaign>
U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/U.S._Attorney_for_the_District_of_New_Jersey>
(2002–2008)
	 New Jersey <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Jersey> 	June 6, 2023 	
January 10, 2024 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Chris_Christie_2024_presidential_campaign_logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Chris_Christie_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[202] <#cite_note-206>
Website <https://chrischristie.com/> 	1,528 	^[203] <#cite_note-207>
^[204] <#cite_note-208>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Doug_Burgum_(53299217989)_(cropped)_2.jpg>
*Doug Burgum <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doug_Burgum>* 	August 1, 1956
(age 67)
Arthur, North Dakota <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Arthur,_North_Dakota> 	*Governor of North Dakota <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_North_Dakota>
(2016–present)*
Senior VP of Microsoft Business Solutions Group <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Dynamics_365>
(2002–2007)
President of Great Plains Software <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Great_Plains_Software>
(1984–2001)
	 North Dakota <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Dakota> 	June 7,
2023 	December 4, 2023
/(endorsed Trump)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Doug_Burgum_2024_Logo_(cropped).png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Doug_Burgum_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[205] <#cite_note-209>
Website <https://www.dougburgum.com/> 	180 	^[206] <#cite_note-210>
^[207] <#cite_note-211> ^[208] <#cite_note-212>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Tim_Scott_(53297754192)_(double_cropped).jpg>
*Tim Scott <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Scott>* 	September 19, 1965
(age 58)
North Charleston, South Carolina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
North_Charleston,_South_Carolina> 	*U.S. Senator <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Senator> from South Carolina <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Carolina>
(2013–present)*
U.S. Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Representative>
from SC-01 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Carolina%27s_1st_congressional_district>
(2011–2013)
South Carolina State Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
South_Carolina_House_of_Representatives>
(2009–2011)
	 South Carolina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Carolina> 	May 19,
2023
Exploratory committee:
April 12, 2023 	November 12, 2023
/(endorsed Trump)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Tim_Scott_2024_Presidential_Exploratory_Committee_logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Tim_Scott_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[209] <#cite_note-213> ^[210] <#cite_note-214>
Website <https://votetimscott.com/> 	196 	^[211] <#cite_note-215> ^[212]
<#cite_note-216> ^[213] <#cite_note-217>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Mike_Pence_(53299483780)_(double_cropped).jpg>
*Mike Pence <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mike_Pence>* 	June 7, 1959
(age 64)
Columbus, Indiana <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbus,_Indiana> 	
*Vice President of the United States <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Vice_President_of_the_United_States>
(2017–2021)*
Governor of Indiana <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Indiana>
(2013–2017)
U.S. Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Representative>
from Indiana <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Indiana%27s_6th_congressional_district>
(2001–2013) 	 Indiana <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indiana> 	June 5,
2023 	October 28, 2023 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Mike_Pence_2024_presidential_campaign_logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Mike_Pence_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[214] <#cite_note-218>
Website <https://mikepence2024.com/> 	404 	^[215] <#cite_note-219>
^[216] <#cite_note-220>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Larry_Elder_in_July_(cropped).jpg>
*Larry Elder <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Elder>* 	April 27, 1952
(age 71)
Los Angeles, California <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Los_Angeles> 	
*Host of /The Larry Elder Show/
(1993–2022)*
Candidate for Governor of California <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Governor_of_California> in the 2021 recall election <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2021_California_gubernatorial_recall_election> 	
 California <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/California> 	April 20, 2023 	
October 26, 2023
/(endorsed Trump)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Larry_Elder_for_President_logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Larry_Elder_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[217] <#cite_note-221>
Website <https://www.larryelder.com/> 		^[218] <#cite_note-222> ^[219]
<#cite_note-HillOct26-223>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Perry_Johnson_by_Gage_Skidmore_(cropped).jpg>
*Perry Johnson <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Perry_Johnson_(businessman)>* 	January 23, 1948
(age 75)
Dolton, Illinois <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dolton,_Illinois> 	
*Founder of Perry Johnson Registrars, Inc.
(1994–present)*
Disqualified candidate for Governor of Michigan <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Michigan> in 2022 <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Michigan_gubernatorial_election> 	 Michigan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michigan> 	March 2, 2023 	October 20, 2023
/(endorsed Trump)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Perry_Johnson_2024_logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Perry_Johnson_(businessman)#2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[220] <#cite_note-224>
Website <https://www.perryjohnson.com/> 	26 	^[221] <#cite_note-
apmarch3-225> ^[222] <#cite_note-226> ^[223] <#cite_note-227>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Will_Hurd_by_Gage_Skidmore.jpg>
*Will Hurd <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Will_Hurd>* 	August 19, 1977
(age 46)
San Antonio, Texas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_Antonio> 	*U.S.
Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._Representative> from
TX-23 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas%27s_23rd_congressional_district>
(2015–2021)* 	 Texas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas> 	June 22,
2023 	October 9, 2023
/(endorsed Haley)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Will_Hurd_2024_logo.svg>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Will_Hurd_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[224] <#cite_note-228>
Website <https://www.willbhurd.com/> 		^[225] <#cite_note-229> ^[226]
<#cite_note-hurd_haley-230>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Francis_Suarez_by_Gage_Skidmore_(cropped).jpg>
*Francis Suarez <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francis_Suarez>* 	October
6, 1977
(age 45)
Miami, Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miami> 	*Mayor of Miami
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayor_of_Miami>
(2017–present)*
Member of the Miami City Commission <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Government_of_Miami>
(2009–2017) 	 Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida> 	June 14,
2023 	August 29, 2023 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Francis_Suarez_2024_logo_(transparent_background).svg>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Francis_Suarez#2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[227] <#cite_note-231>
Website <https://www.itstimewegetstarted.com/>^[e] <#cite_note-232> 		
^[228] <#cite_note-233> ^[229] <#cite_note-234>


    Independent and third party candidates

Numerous third party and independent candidates have announced
presidential runs.

Anti-vaccine activist <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-
vaccine_activism> and environmental lawyer <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Environmental_lawyer> Robert F. Kennedy Jr <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr.>. has drawn support among
independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> and
anti-establishment <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-establishment>
voters disillusioned with mainstream American politics, winning a
plurality <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plurality_voting> among
independents in some polls.^[230] <#cite_note-235> ^[231] <#cite_note-:
5-236> He has faced criticism for supporting various conspiracy theories
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conspiracy_theory>, particularly on the
John F. Kennedy assassination <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
John_F._Kennedy_assassination_conspiracy_theories> and COVID-19 vaccines
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
COVID-19_vaccine_hesitancy_in_the_United_States>.^[232] <#cite_note-237>
Left-wing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Left-wing_politics> activist
and intellectual Cornel West <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornel_West>
announced a campaign as an independent after initially announcing a run
as a People's Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
People%27s_Party_(United_States,_2017)> and later a Green Party
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Party_of_the_United_States>
candidate.^[127] <#cite_note-Benson2023-128> Centrist <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centrism> political organization No Labels
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_Labels>, which helped create the
bipartisan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bipartisan> Problem Solvers
Caucus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Problem_Solvers_Caucus> in the
United States House of Representatives <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
United_States_House_of_Representatives>, also said they would consider
running a third-party candidate, citing popular polling for such a
candidate.^[233] <#cite_note-238> Some established third parties, such
as the American Solidarity Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
American_Solidarity_Party>, the Prohibition Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prohibition_Party>, and the Party for Socialism
and Liberation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Party_for_Socialism_and_Liberation> have announced presidential
nominees, while others, such as the Libertarian Party <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Libertarian_Party_(United_States)> and the Green
Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Party_of_the_United_States>
have yet to hold their primaries.


      Notable party nominations

The following individuals have been nominated by their respective
parties to run for president.


        With partial ballot access

These parties have ballot access in some states, but not enough to get
270 votes to win the presidency, without running a write-in campaign.

Name 	Born 	Experience 	Home state 	Campaign
Announcement date 	Campaign 	Ref
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Peter_Sonski_Portrait.jpg>
*Peter Sonski <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Sonski>* 	1962
(age 61–62)
Massachusetts <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Massachusetts> 	
*Connecticut <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connecticut> local politician*
Director of the Knights of Columbus Museum <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Knights_of_Columbus_Museum> 	 Connecticut <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connecticut> 	June 13, 2023 	<https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:American_Solidarity_Party_2024_Campaign_Logo.png>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[234] <#cite_note-239>
Website <https://www.petersonski.com/> 	^[235] <#cite_note-240>

  * *Prohibition Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Prohibition_Party>*: Michael Wood, businessman^[236] <#cite_note-241>
  * *Party for Socialism and Liberation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Party_for_Socialism_and_Liberation>*: Claudia de la Cruz <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Claudia_de_la_Cruz>, political activist^[237]
    <#cite_note-242> ^[238] <#cite_note-243> 


        Without ballot access

  * *Socialist Party USA <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Socialist_Party_USA>*: Bill Stodden, nonprofit executive^[239]
    <#cite_note-244> ^[240] <#cite_note-:13-245>
  * *Transhumanist Party <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Transhumanist_Party>*: Tom Ross, technology and political
    activist^[241] <#cite_note-246> 


      Notable declared candidates

The following individuals have declared their intent to run for president.


        Independents


          Declared major independent candidates

Name 	Born 	Experience 	Home state 	Campaign
Announcement date 	Campaign 	Ref
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:RFK_Jr_4x5.jpg>
*Robert F.
Kennedy Jr. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr.>* 	
January 17, 1954
(age 70)
Washington, D.C. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington,_D.C.> 	
*Environmental lawyer*
Founder of Children's Health Defense <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Children%27s_Health_Defense>
Founder of Waterkeeper Alliance <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Waterkeeper_Alliance>
Anti-vaccine activist 	 California <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
California> 	April 19, 2023
/(as a Democrat)/
October 9, 2023
/(as an independent)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:Robert_Kennedy_Jr_for_President_Logo.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr._2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[242] <#cite_note-247> ^[243] <#cite_note-248> ^[244]
<#cite_note-249>
Website <https://www.kennedy24.com/> 	^[245] <#cite_note-250> ^[246]
<#cite_note-251>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Cornel_West_by_Gage_Skidmore.jpg>
*Cornel West <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornel_West>* 	June 2, 1953
(age 70)
Tulsa, Oklahoma <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tulsa,_Oklahoma> 	
Academic and activist 	 California <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
California> 	June 5, 2023
/(for the People's Party)/
June 14, 2023
/(for the Green Party)/
October 5, 2023
/(as an independent)/ 	<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
File:West_POTUS_24.png>
Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Cornel_West_2024_presidential_campaign>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEC filing^[247] <#cite_note-252> ^[248] <#cite_note-253> ^[249]
<#cite_note-254>
Website <https://www.cornelwest2024.com/> 	^[250] <#cite_note-255>


          Other candidates

  * Shiva Ayyadurai <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shiva_Ayyadurai>,
    engineer, entrepreneur, and anti-vaccine activist; candidate for
    U.S. Senate <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Senate>
    from Massachusetts <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Massachusetts> in
    2018 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2018_United_States_Senate_election_in_Massachusetts> and 2020
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2020_United_States_Senate_election_in_Massachusetts>^[251]
    <#cite_note-256> ^[252] <#cite_note-257> ^[f] <#cite_note-258>
  * Joseph "Afroman" Foreman <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Afroman>,
    rapper^[253] <#cite_note-259> ^[254] <#cite_note-CATHVOTE-260>
    ^[255] <#cite_note-261> ^[256] <#cite_note-262>
  * Taylor Marshall <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taylor_Marshall>,
    podcaster and author^[257] <#cite_note-263> ^[258] <#cite_note-264>
    ^[254] <#cite_note-CATHVOTE-260> ^[259] <#cite_note-265> 


        Libertarian Party

  * Chase Oliver <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chase_Oliver>, nominee
    for U.S. Senate in Georgia, 2022 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2022_U.S._Senate_election_in_Georgia>^[260] <#cite_note-266>
  * Art Olivier <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Art_Olivier>, 2000
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2000_Libertarian_National_Convention#Voting_for_vice_presidential_nomination> Libertarian vice-presidential nominee, 2006 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2006_California_gubernatorial_election#Third_parties> nominee for Governor of California, mayor of Bellflower, California <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bellflower,_California> (1998-1999)^[261] <#cite_note-267>
  * Michael Rectenwald <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Michael_Rectenwald>, author and former liberal studies professor at
    New York University <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    New_York_University>^[262] <#cite_note-268> 


        Green Party

  * Jill Stein <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jill_Stein>, physician and
    2012 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Jill_Stein_2012_presidential_campaign> and 2016 <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jill_Stein_2024_presidential_campaign> Green
    presidential nominee, member of the Lexington <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lexington,_Massachusetts> Town Meeting
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representative_town_meeting> (2005–
    2010)^[263] <#cite_note-269>
  * Randy Toler <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randy_Toler>, political
    activist and co-chair of the Green Party of Florida <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Party_of_Florida>^[264] <#cite_note-270> 


      Publicly expressed interest

As of January 2024, the following notable individuals have expressed an
interest in running for president within the previous six months.

  * Liz Cheney <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liz_Cheney>, United States
    Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    United_States_Representative> from WY-AL <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Wyoming%27s_at-large_congressional_district> (2017–2023),
    Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Deputy_Assistant_Secretary_of_State_for_Near_Eastern_Affairs> (2002–
    2004, 2005–2009)^[265] <#cite_note-271>
  * Joe Manchin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Manchin>, United
    States Senator <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Senate>
    from West Virginia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Virginia>
    (2010–present), 34th governor of West Virginia <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_governors_of_West_Virginia> (2005–
    2010), 27th West Virginia Secretary of State <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secretary_of_State_of_West_Virginia> (2001–
    2005), member of the West Virginia Senate <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/West_Virginia_Senate> from the 13th district <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Virginia%27s_13th_Senate_district> (1986–
    1996), member of the West Virginia House of Delegates <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Virginia_House_of_Delegates> from the
    31st district (1982–1986)^[266] <#cite_note-272> 


      Potential candidates

As of January 2024, there has been speculation about the potential
candidacy of the following notable individuals within the previous six
months.

  * Bill Cassidy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Cassidy>, United
    States Senator <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Senate>
    from Louisiana <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louisiana> (2015–
    present), United States Representative <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/United_States_Representative> from LA-06 <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louisiana%27s_6th_congressional_district>
    (2009–2015), member of the Louisiana Senate <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louisiana_State_Senate> from the 16th district
    (2006–2009)^[267] <#cite_note-273> ^[g] <#cite_note-274>
  * William H. McRaven <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    William_H._McRaven>, Commander of the United States Special
    Operations Command <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    United_States_Special_Operations_Command> (2011–2014) and Chancellor
    of the University of Texas System <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    University_of_Texas_System> (2015–2018)^[268] <#cite_note-275> 


      Withdrawn candidates

The following notable individual(s) announced and then suspended their
campaigns before the election:

  * Kanye West <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kanye_West>, rapper,
    candidate for president in 2020 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Kanye_West_presidential_campaigns>^[269] <#cite_note-276> 


    Polling and forecasts


      Polling aggregation


      Joe Biden vs. Donald Trump

Source of poll
aggregation 	Dates
administered 	Dates
updated 	Joe
Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>
Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_(United_States)> 	Donald
Trump <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>
Republican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Republican_Party_(United_States)> 	Other/
Undecided
^[h] <#cite_note-difference-277> 	Margin
RealClearPolitics <https://www.realclearpolling.com/polls/president/
general/2024/trump-vs-biden> 	January 3, 2023 – January 24, 2024 	
January 24, 2024 	43.0% 	*47.3%* 	8.8% 	*Trump +4.3*
Race to the WH <https://www.racetothewh.com/president/polls> 	through
January 20, 2024 	January 24, 2024 	43.0% 	*44.7%* 	13.7% 	*Trump +1.7*
Decision Desk HQ/The Hill <https://elections2024.thehill.com/national/
biden_trump_general> 	through January 18, 2024 	January 24, 2024 	42.5%
	*44.2%* 	12.4% 	*Trump +1.8*
*Average* 	43.0% 	*45.4%* 	11.3% 	*Trump +2.4*


      Joe Biden vs. Donald Trump vs. Robert F. Kennedy Jr.

Source of poll
aggregation 	Dates
administered 	Dates
updated 	Joe
Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>
Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_(United_States)> 	Donald
Trump <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>
Republican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Republican_Party_(United_States)> 	Robert F.
Kennedy Jr. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr.>
Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> 	Other/
Undecided
^[h] <#cite_note-difference-277> 	Margin
Race to the WH <https://www.racetothewh.com/president/polls> 	through
January 18, 2024 	January 21, 2024 	37.1% 	*38.3%* 	13.3% 	11.3% 	*Trump
+1.2*
RealClearPolitics <https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2024/
president/us/general_election_trump_vs_biden_vs_kennedy-8272.html> 	
December 6, 2023 – January 18, 2024 	January 21, 2024 	33.8% 	*37.5%* 	
19.3% 	9.4% 	*Trump +3.7*
*Average* 	35.5% 	*37.9%* 	16.3% 	10.3% 	*Trump +2.4*


      Joe Biden vs. Donald Trump vs. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. vs. Cornel West

Source of poll
aggregation 	Dates
administered 	Dates
updated 	Joe
Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>
Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_(United_States)> 	Donald
Trump <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>
Republican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Republican_Party_(United_States)> 	Robert F.
Kennedy Jr. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_F._Kennedy_Jr.>
Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> 	Cornel
West <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cornel_West>
Independent <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_politician> 	Other/
Undecided
^[h] <#cite_note-difference-277> 	Margin
Race to the WH <https://www.racetothewh.com/president/polls> 	through
January 19, 2024 	January 21, 2024 	36.0% 	*39.4%* 	11.2% 	2.4% 	11.0% 	
*Trump +3.4*
RealClearPolitics <https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2024/
president/us/
general_election_trump_vs_biden_vs_kennedy_vs_west-8289.html> 	October
17 – November 28, 2023 	January 21, 2024 	36.2% 	*39.0%* 	15.8% 	3.8% 	
5.2% 	*Trump +2.8*
*Average* 	36.1% 	*39.2%* 	13.5% 	3.1% 	8.1% 	*Trump +3.1*


      Joe Biden vs. Nikki Haley

Source of poll
aggregation 	Dates
administered 	Dates
updated 	Joe
Biden <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Biden>
Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_(United_States)> 	Nikki
Haley <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikki_Haley>
Republican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Republican_Party_(United_States)> 	Other/
Undecided
^[h] <#cite_note-difference-277> 	Margin
Decision Desk HQ/The Hill <https://elections2024.thehill.com/national/
biden_haley_general> 	through January 13, 2024 	January 21, 2024 	40.3%
	*42.9%* 	16.8% 	*Haley +2.6*
Race to the WH <https://www.racetothewh.com/president/polls> 	through
January 15, 2024 	January 21, 2024 	42.0% 	*46.7%* 	11.3% 	*Haley +4.7*
RealClearPolitics <https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2024/
president/us/general_election_haley_vs_biden-8127.html> 	December 10,
2023 – January 18, 2024 	January 21, 2024 	40.7% 	*41.8%* 	17.5% 	*Haley
+1.1*
*Average* 	41.0% 	*43.8%* 	15.2% 	*Haley +2.8*


      Kamala Harris vs. Donald Trump

Source of poll
aggregation 	Dates
administered 	Dates
updated 	Kamala
Harris <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kamala_Harris>
Democratic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Democratic_Party_(United_States)> 	Donald
Trump <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump>
Republican <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Republican_Party_(United_States)> 	Other/
Undecided
^[h] <#cite_note-difference-277> 	Margin
Race to the WH <https://www.racetothewh.com/president/polls> 	through
December 17, 2023 	January 21, 2024 	44.5% 	*47.3%* 	8.2% 	*Trump +2.8*
RealClearPolitics <https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2024/
president/us/general_election_trump_vs_harris-7386.html> 	November 10–
16, 2023 	November 25, 2023 	42.5% 	*51.0%* 	6.5% 	*Trump +8.5*
*Average* 	43.5% 	*49.2%* 	7.3% 	*Trump +5.7*


      Forecasts

Elections analysts and political pundits issue probabilistic forecasts
to give readers a sense of how probable various electoral outcomes are.
These forecasts use a variety of factors to determine the likelihood of
each candidate winning each state. Most election predictors use the
following ratings:

  * "_tossup_": no advantage
  * "_tilt_" (used by some predictors): advantage that is not quite as
    strong as "lean"
  * "_lean_" or "_leans_": slight advantage
  * "_likely_": significant, but surmountable, advantage
  * "_safe_" or "_solid_": near-certain chance of victory

Below is a list of states considered by one or more forecast to be
competitive; states that are deemed to be "safe" or "solid" by all
forecasters (/The Cook Political Report <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
The_Cook_Political_Report>/, /Sabato's Crystal Ball <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sabato%27s_Crystal_Ball>/, and /Inside Elections
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inside_Elections>/) are omitted for brevity.

State 	EVs 	PVI <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Cook_Partisan_Voting_Index>^[270] <#cite_note-278> 	2020
result 	2020
margin^[271] <#cite_note-279> 	IE <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Inside_Elections>
April 26,
2023^[272] <#cite_note-Inside_Elections-280> 	Sabato <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sabato%27s_Crystal_Ball>
January 3,
2024^[273] <#cite_note-Sabato's_Crystal_Ball-281> 	Cook <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cook_Political_Report>
December 19,
2023^[274] <#cite_note-The_Cook_Political_Report-282> 	CNalysis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNalysis>
December 30,
2023^[275] <#cite_note-CNalysis-283>
Alaska <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Alaska> 	3 	R+8 	52.8% R 	
10.06% 	Solid R 	Likely R 	Solid R 	Very Likely R
Arizona <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Arizona> 	11 	R+2 	49.4% D 	
0.31% 	Tossup 	Tossup 	Tossup 	Tossup
Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Florida> 	30 	R+3 	51.2% R 	
3.36% 	Lean R 	Likely R 	Likely R 	Very Likely R
Georgia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Georgia> 	16 	R+3 	49.5% D 	
0.24% 	Tossup 	Tossup 	Tossup 	Tossup
Iowa <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Iowa> 	6 	R+6 	53.1% R 	
8.20% 	Likely R 	Likely R 	Solid R 	Solid R
Maine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Maine>^[i] <#cite_note-ME/
NE-284> 	2 	D+2 	53.1% D 	9.07% 	Likely D 	Likely D 	Likely D 	Very
Likely D
ME–02 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Maine>^[i] <#cite_note-ME/
NE-284> 	1 	R+6 	52.3% R 	7.44% 	Lean R 	Lean R 	Likely R 	Very Likely R
Michigan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Michigan> 	15 	R+1 	50.6% D
	2.78% 	Tilt D 	Lean D 	Tossup 	Tossup
Minnesota <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Minnesota> 	10 	D+1 	52.4% D
	7.11% 	Lean D 	Likely D 	Likely D 	Very Likely D
NE–02 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Nebraska>^[i] <#cite_note-
ME/NE-284> 	1 	EVEN 	52.0% D 	6.50% 	Lean D 	Lean D 	Likely D 	Lean D
Nevada <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Nevada> 	6 	R+1 	50.1% D 	
2.39% 	Tilt D 	Tossup 	Tossup 	Tossup
New Hampshire <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_New_Hampshire> 	4 	D+1 	
52.7% D 	7.35% 	Lean D 	Lean D 	Likely D 	Very Likely D
New Mexico <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_New_Mexico> 	5 	D+3 	54.3% D
	10.79% 	Solid D 	Likely D 	Solid D 	Solid D
North Carolina <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_North_Carolina> 	16 	R+3 	
49.9% R 	1.35% 	Tilt R 	Lean R 	Lean R 	Tossup
Ohio <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Ohio> 	17 	R+6 	53.3% R 	
8.03% 	Likely R 	Likely R 	Solid R 	Very Likely R
Pennsylvania <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Pennsylvania> 	19 	R+2 	
50.0% D 	1.16% 	Tossup 	Lean D 	Tossup 	Tossup
Texas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Texas> 	40 	R+5 	52.1% R 	
5.58% 	Likely R 	Likely R 	Likely R 	Lean R
Virginia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Virginia> 	13 	D+3 	54.1% D
	10.11% 	Likely D 	Likely D 	Solid D 	Very Likely D
Wisconsin <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
2024_United_States_presidential_election_in_Wisconsin> 	10 	R+2 	49.5% D
	0.63% 	Tossup 	Tossup 	Tossup 	Tossup
Overall 	D - 247
R - 235
56 tossups 	D - 260
R - 235
43 tossups 	D - 226
R - 235
77 tossups 	D - 226
R - 219
93 tossups


    Debates

The Commission on Presidential Debates <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Commission_on_Presidential_Debates> announced on November 20, 2023, it
will host four debates in 2024.

 1. September 16 at Texas State University <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Texas_State_University> in San Marcos, Texas <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_Marcos,_Texas> (presidential debate).
 2. September 25 at Lafayette College <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Lafayette_College> in Easton, Pennsylvania <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Easton,_Pennsylvania> (vice presidential debate).
 3. October 1 at Virginia State University <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Virginia_State_University> in Petersburg, Virginia <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Petersburg,_Virginia> (presidential debate).
 4. October 9 at University of Utah <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    University_of_Utah> in Salt Lake City, Utah <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salt_Lake_City> (presidential debate).

To qualify for the debates, candidates must appear on enough ballots to
be able to win a majority of the electoral votes, must be
constitutionally eligible, and poll an average of at least 15% in
national polls from organizations selected by the commission.^[276]
<#cite_note-285> Currently, Kennedy has the polling numbers that would
allow him to be on the stage, which could mark the first third-party
candidate to be on the stage since Ross Perot <https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Ross_Perot> in 1992 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
1992_United_States_presidential_election> if his polling trends
continue.^[277] <#cite_note-286> ^[/better source needed <https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:NOTRS>/] ^[278] <#cite_note-287>


    See also

  * 2024 United States elections <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2024_United_States_elections>
      o 2024 United States gubernatorial elections <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_United_States_gubernatorial_elections>
      o 2024 United States House of Representatives elections <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
        2024_United_States_House_of_Representatives_elections>
      o 2024 United States Senate elections <https://en.wikipedia.org/
        wiki/2024_United_States_Senate_elections>
  * Nationwide opinion polling for the 2024 United States presidential
    election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Nationwide_opinion_polling_for_the_2024_United_States_presidential_election>
  * Statewide opinion polling for the 2024 United States presidential
    election <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Statewide_opinion_polling_for_the_2024_United_States_presidential_election>
  * Timeline of the 2024 United States presidential election <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Timeline_of_the_2024_United_States_presidential_election>


    Notes

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-86>* Attributed to multiple references:^[80]
    <#cite_note-CBS_Dictator-80> ^[81] <#cite_note-Atlantic_Dictator-81>
    ^[82] <#cite_note-Politico_Dictator_2-82> ^[83] <#cite_note-
    USA_Today_Dictator-83> ^[84] <#cite_note-NYT_Dictator-84> ^[85]
    <#cite_note-WaPo_Dictator-85>
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-153>* Primary not sanctioned by the DNC <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_National_Committee>.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-RFK_162-0>* Write-in votes in New Hampshire <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    2024_New_Hampshire_Democratic_presidential_primary>.
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-184>* Trump's state of residence in 2016 <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_United_States_presidential_election> was
    New York <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_(state)>, but his
    state of residence changed to Florida <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Florida> when he moved to Mar-a-Lago <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Mar-a-Lago> in 2019.
 5. *^ <#cite_ref-232>* Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230823085526/https://www.itstimewegetstarted.com> August 23, 2023,
    at the Wayback Machine <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>
 6. *^ <#cite_ref-258>* Ayyadurai is not eligible to serve as president
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    President_of_the_United_States#Eligibility> as he is not a natural-
    born citizen <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural-born-
    citizen_clause_(United_States)>, but he claims he can run for office.
 7. *^ <#cite_ref-274>* Cassidy is a member of the Republican Party, but
    has expressed willingness to talk to the group No Labels about a
    third-party run.
 8. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-difference_277-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    difference_277-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-difference_277-2> ^/*d*/
    <#cite_ref-difference_277-3> ^/*e*/ <#cite_ref-difference_277-4>
    Calculated by taking the difference of 100% and all other candidates
    combined.
 9. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-ME/NE_284-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-ME/
    NE_284-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-ME/NE_284-2> Unlike the other 48 states
    and Washington, D.C., which award all of their electors to the
    candidate who receives the most votes in that state, Maine and
    Nebraska award two electors to the winner of the statewide vote and
    one each to the candidate who receives the most votes in each
    congressional district.


    References

 1. *^ <#cite_ref-va_1-0>* "Election Planning Calendar" <http://
    www.essex-virginia.org/UserFiles/Servers/Server_62876/File/
    Voter%20Registration/
    Election%20Planning%20Calendar%20Through%202024%20%28ESSEX%29.pdf>
    (PDF). /Essex-Virginia.org/. Essex County, Virginia <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essex_County,_Virginia>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20160207003141/http://www.essex-virginia.org/
    UserFiles/Servers/Server_62876/File/Voter%20Registration/
    Election%20Planning%20Calendar%20Through%202024%20%28ESSEX%29.pdf>
    (PDF) from the original on February 7, 2016. Retrieved February 6, 2016.
 2. *^ <#cite_ref-2>* Kinery, Emma (April 25, 2023). "Biden launches
    2024 reelection campaign, promising to fulfill economic policy
    vision" <https://www.cnbc.com/2023/04/25/joe-biden-announces-2024-
    reelection-campaign.html>. /CNBC/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230425102004/https://www.cnbc.com/2023/04/25/
    joe-biden-announces-2024-reelection-campaign.html> from the original
    on April 25, 2023. Retrieved April 25, 2023.
 3. *^ <#cite_ref-3>* Singman, Brooke (November 7, 2022). "Donald Trump
    announces 2024 re-election run for president" <https://
    www.foxnews.com/politics/donald-trump-announces-2024-re-election-
    run-president>. /Fox News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fox_News>/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221116022451/https://
    www.foxnews.com/politics/donald-trump-announces-2024-re-election-
    run-president> from the original on November 16, 2022. Retrieved
    November 16, 2022.
 4. *^ <#cite_ref-4>* Mnookin, Seth. "How Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.,
    Distorted Vaccine Science" <https://www.scientificamerican.com/
    article/how-robert-f-kennedy-jr-distorted-vaccine-science1/>. /
    Scientific American/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20170112025044/https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-
    robert-f-kennedy-jr-distorted-vaccine-science1/> from the original
    on January 12, 2017. Retrieved January 12, 2024.
 5. *^ <#cite_ref-5>* The Anti-Vaxx Playbook <https://counterhate.com/
    wp-content/uploads/2022/05/210106-The-Anti-Vaxx-Playbook.pdf> (PDF)
    (Report). Center for Countering Digital Hate <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center_for_Countering_Digital_Hate>. 2020.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220709180456/https://
    counterhate.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/210106-The-Anti-Vaxx-
    Playbook.pdf> (PDF) from the original on July 9, 2022. Retrieved
    June 9, 2023.
 6. *^ <#cite_ref-6>* Pellish, Aaron (October 9, 2023). "Robert F.
    Kennedy Jr. announces independent run for president, ending
    Democratic primary challenge to Biden" <https://www.cnn.com/
    2023/10/09/politics/kennedy-independent-campaign/index.html>. /CNN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNN>/. Archived <https://
    archive.today/20231009173105/https://www.cnn.com/2023/10/09/
    politics/kennedy-independent-campaign/index.html> from the original
    on October 9, 2023. Retrieved November 16, 2023.
 7. *^ <#cite_ref-7>* Benson, Samuel (November 2, 2023). "RFK Jr.'s big
    gamble" <https://www.deseret.com/2023/11/1/23925926/robert-kennedy-
    jr-independent-trump-biden-family>. /Deseret News <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deseret_News>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231121045412/https://www.deseret.com/
    2023/11/1/23925926/robert-kennedy-jr-independent-trump-biden-family>
    from the original on November 21, 2023. Retrieved November 21, 2023.
    "Early polls show Kennedy polling in the teens or low 20s"
 8. *^ <#cite_ref-8>* Enten, Harry (November 11, 2023). "How RFK Jr.
    could change the outcome of the 2024 election" <https://www.cnn.com/
    2023/11/11/politics/robert-kennedy-rfk-2024-election-outcome/
    index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231120223841/https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/11/politics/robert-
    kennedy-rfk-2024-election-outcome/index.html> from the original on
    November 20, 2023. Retrieved November 21, 2023.
 9. *^ <#cite_ref-9>* Halpert, Madeline; Drenon, Brandon (December 19,
    2023). "Colorado Supreme Court kicks Trump off ballot, citing
    'insurrection'" <https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-
    canada-67768873>. /BBC News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    BBC_News>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231220202057/
    https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-67768873> from the original
    on December 20, 2023. Retrieved December 21, 2023.
10. *^ <#cite_ref-10>* "Trump back on ballot in Colorado while state
    Republicans appeal ban to Supreme Court" <https://www.cbsnews.com/
    news/colorado-republican-party-appeal-u-s-supreme-court-trump-
    ballot-ban/>. /CBS News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CBS_News>/.
    December 28, 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231229062034/https://www.cbsnews.com/news/colorado-republican-
    party-appeal-u-s-supreme-court-trump-ballot-ban/> from the original
    on December 29, 2023. Retrieved December 29, 2023.
11. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-cbsdec28_11-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    cbsdec28_11-1> Freiman, Jordan (December 28, 2023). "Maine secretary
    of state disqualifies Trump from primary ballot" <https://
    www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-maine-primary-ballot-disqualified-
    secretary-of-state-shenna-bellows/>. /CBS News/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231229014916/https://www.cbsnews.com/news/
    trump-maine-primary-ballot-disqualified-secretary-of-state-shenna-
    bellows/> from the original on December 29, 2023. Retrieved December
    29, 2023.
12. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Abortion_12-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    Abortion_12-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Abortion_12-2> ^/*d*/ <#cite_ref-
    Abortion_12-3> For sources on this, see:
      * Edsall, Thomas B. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
        Thomas_B._Edsall> (April 12, 2023). "How The Right Came To
        Embrace Intrusive Government" <https://www.nytimes.com/
        2023/04/12/opinion/republican-party-intrusive-
        government.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://
        www.worldcat.org/issn/0362-4331>. Archived <https://
        web.archive.org/web/20230412100935/https://www.nytimes.com/
        2023/04/12/opinion/republican-party-intrusive-government.html>
        from the original on April 12, 2023. Retrieved April 12, 2023.
        "Republicans in states across the country are defiantly pushing
        for the criminalization of abortion — of the procedure, of
        abortifacient drugs and of those who travel out of state to
        terminate pregnancy... According to research provided to The
        Times by the Kaiser Family Foundation, states that have abortion
        bans at various early stages of pregnancy with no exception for
        rape or incest include Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida,
        Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma,
        South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, West Virginia and Wisconsin."
      * Allison, Natalie (June 24, 2022). "Roe reversal divides 2024 GOP
        field" <https://www.politico.com/news/2022/06/24/roe-reversal-
        divides-2024-gop-field-00042346>. /Politico <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politico>/. Archived <https://
        web.archive.org/web/20220628202834/https://www.politico.com/
        news/2022/06/24/roe-reversal-divides-2024-gop-field-00042346>
        from the original on June 28, 2022. Retrieved June 25, 2022.
      * Weisman, Jonathan (April 11, 2023). "Pressured by Their Base on
        Abortion, Republicans Strain to Find a Way Forward" <https://
        www.nytimes.com/2023/04/11/us/politics/abortion-republicans-
        elections.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN <https://
        en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://
        www.worldcat.org/issn/0362-4331>. Archived <https://
        web.archive.org/web/20230411092928/https://www.nytimes.com/
        2023/04/11/us/politics/abortion-republicans-elections.html> from
        the original on April 11, 2023. Retrieved April 12, 2023.
      * Godfrey, Elaine (May 4, 2022). "The GOP's Strange Turn Against
        Rape Exceptions" <https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/
        2022/05/supreme-court-overturn-roe-v-wade-no-rape-incest-
        exceptions/629747/>. /The Atlantic/. Archived <https://
        web.archive.org/web/20220504102020/https://www.theatlantic.com/
        politics/archive/2022/05/supreme-court-overturn-roe-v-wade-no-
        rape-incest-exceptions/629747/> from the original on May 4,
        2022. Retrieved April 7, 2023.
13. *^ <#cite_ref-13>* McCammon, Sarah (November 8, 2023). "Abortion
    rights win big in 2023 elections, again" <https://www.npr.org/
    2023/11/08/1211429268/abortion-rights-2023-election-ohio-virginia-
    kentucky>. /NPR <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NPR>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231215090744/https://www.npr.org/
    2023/11/08/1211429268/abortion-rights-2023-election-ohio-virginia-
    kentucky> from the original on December 15, 2023. Retrieved December
    16, 2023.
14. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Colvin2023_14-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    Colvin2023_14-1> Colvin, Jill; Miller, Zeke (November 27, 2023).
    "Trump says he will renew efforts to replace 'Obamacare' if he wins
    a second term" <https://apnews.com/article/trump-obamacare-health-
    care-biden-c2b1f5776310870deed2fb997b07fc2c>. /Associated Press
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231204043350/https://apnews.com/
    article/trump-obamacare-health-care-biden-
    c2b1f5776310870deed2fb997b07fc2c> from the original on December 4,
    2023. Retrieved December 4, 2023.
15. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-auto_15-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    auto_15-1> Manchester, Julia (January 29, 2023). "Republicans see
    education as winning issue in 2024" <https://thehill.com/homenews/
    campaign/3833724-republicans-see-education-as-winning-issue-in-2024/
    >. /The Hill/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230129170545/
    https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/3833724-republicans-see-
    education-as-winning-issue-in-2024/> from the original on January
    29, 2023. Retrieved July 9, 2023.
16. *^ <#cite_ref-16>* Cook, Charlie (March 2, 2023). "Will 2024 Be
    About the Economy, or the Candidates?" <https://
    www.cookpolitical.com/analysis/national/national-politics/will-2024-
    be-about-economy-or-candidates>. /Cook Political Report <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cook_Political_Report>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230325201533/https://www.cookpolitical.com/
    analysis/national/national-politics/will-2024-be-about-economy-or-
    candidates> from the original on March 25, 2023. Retrieved March 25,
    2023.
17. *^ <#cite_ref-17>* Ward, Alexander; Berg, Matt (October 20, 2023).
    "2024: The foreign policy election?" <https://www.politico.com/
    newsletters/national-security-daily/2023/10/20/2024-the-foreign-
    policy-election-00122691>. /Politico/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231120235105/https://www.politico.com/
    newsletters/national-security-daily/2023/10/20/2024-the-foreign-
    policy-election-00122691> from the original on November 20, 2023.
    Retrieved November 20, 2023.
18. *^ <#cite_ref-18>* "Here's where the 2024 presidential candidates
    stand on LGBTQ+ issues" <https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/2024-
    presidential-candidates-stand-lgbtq-issues/story?id=103313107>. /ABC
    News/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231206183159/https://
    abcnews.go.com/Politics/2024-presidential-candidates-stand-lgbtq-
    issues/story?id=103313107> from the original on December 6, 2023.
    Retrieved December 6, 2023.
19. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-AP_Democracy_19-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-AP_Democracy_19-1> Fields, Gary; Sanders, Linley
    (December 15, 2023). "Americans agree that the 2024 election will be
    pivotal for democracy, but for different reasons" <https://
    apnews.com/article/democracy-2024-election-trump-biden-
    poll-39309519c8473175c25ab5a305e629ba>. /Associated Press/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231216014504/https://apnews.com/
    article/democracy-2024-election-trump-biden-
    poll-39309519c8473175c25ab5a305e629ba> from the original on December
    16, 2023. Retrieved December 16, 2023.
20. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Politico_Dictator_20-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Politico_Dictator_20-1> Lemire, Jonathan; Ward, Myah
    (December 7, 2023). "Trump's 'dictator' remark puts 2024 campaign
    right where Biden wants it" <https://www.politico.com/news/
    2023/12/07/trumps-dictator-2024-campaign-biden-00130488>. /
    Politico/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231209013301/
    https://www.politico.com/news/2023/12/07/trumps-dictator-2024-
    campaign-biden-00130488> from the original on December 9, 2023.
    Retrieved December 9, 2023.
21. *^ <#cite_ref-Telegraph2012_21-0>* "US Election guide: how does the
    election work?" <https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/us-
    election/9480396/US-Election-guide-how-does-the-election-
    work.html>. /The Daily Telegraph <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_Daily_Telegraph>/. November 6, 2012. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20151110114127/http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/
    worldnews/us-election/9480396/US-Election-guide-how-does-the-
    election-work.html> from the original on November 10, 2015.
    Retrieved October 29, 2015.
22. *^ <#cite_ref-22>* Megerian, Chris (October 17, 2022). "For Biden
    and Trump, 2022 is 2020 sequel — and 2024 preview?" <https://
    apnews.com/article/2022-midterm-elections-biden-presidential-
    election-2020-government-and-politics-
    d5e2272c275d2c443c3cff54f99d35e7>. /Associated Press <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20221109180408/https://apnews.com/article/2022-
    midterm-elections-biden-presidential-election-2020-government-and-
    politics-d5e2272c275d2c443c3cff54f99d35e7> from the original on
    November 9, 2022. Retrieved November 10, 2022.
23. *^ <#cite_ref-23>* Baker, Peter (December 2, 2020). "Trump Hints at
    Another Act in Four Years, Just Like Grover Cleveland" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2020/12/02/us/politics/trump-2024.html>. /The New
    York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20210209183734/https://
    www.nytimes.com/2020/12/02/us/politics/trump-2024.html> from the
    original on February 9, 2021. Retrieved July 30, 2022.
24. *^ <#cite_ref-24>* Samuels, Brett (June 13, 2022). "Trump releases
    12-page response to Jan. 6 hearing" <https://thehill.com/homenews/
    administration/3522080-trump-releases-12-page-response-to-jan-6-
    hearing/>. /The Hill <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220619163035/https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/3522080-
    trump-releases-12-page-response-to-jan-6-hearing/> from the original
    on June 19, 2022. Retrieved November 10, 2022.
25. *^ <#cite_ref-25>* Feinberg, Andrew (August 29, 2022). "Trump
    demands 'new election immediately' in bizarre post on Truth Social"
    <https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/
    trump-new-election-truth-social-b2155158.html>. /The Independent
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Independent>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20221118175952/https://www.independent.co.uk/
    news/world/americas/us-politics/trump-new-election-truth-social-
    b2155158.html> from the original on November 18, 2022. Retrieved
    November 10, 2022.
26. *^ <#cite_ref-26>* Waldman, Michael (February 1, 2022). "How Bad
    Could the 2024 Election Be?" <https://www.brennancenter.org/our-
    work/analysis-opinion/how-bad-could-2024-election-be>. /Brennan
    Center for Justice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Brennan_Center_for_Justice>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20221129140717/https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-
    opinion/how-bad-could-2024-election-be> from the original on
    November 29, 2022. Retrieved March 23, 2023.
27. *^ <#cite_ref-:7_27-0>* Balz, Dan; Ence Morse, Clara (August 18,
    2023). "American democracy is cracking. These forces help explain
    why" <https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/08/18/american-
    democracy-political-system-failures/>. /The Washington Post
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Washington_Post>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115151758/https://
    www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/08/18/american-democracy-
    political-system-failures/> from the original on November 15, 2023.
    Retrieved November 15, 2023.
28. *^ <#cite_ref-28>* Leonhardt, David (September 17, 2022). "A Crisis
    Coming: The Twin Threats to American Democracy" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2022/09/17/us/american-democracy-threats.html>. /The
    New York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231101094836/https://
    www.nytimes.com/2022/09/17/us/american-democracy-threats.html> from
    the original on November 1, 2023. Retrieved November 15, 2023.
29. *^ <#cite_ref-29>* Gambino, Lauren (November 5, 2023). "With the US
    election a year away, most Americans don't want Biden or Trump"
    <https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/nov/05/us-presidential-
    election-biden-trump-polls>. /The Guardian/. ISSN <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0261-3077 <https://
    www.worldcat.org/issn/0261-3077>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231116135016/https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/nov/05/
    us-presidential-election-biden-trump-polls> from the original on
    November 16, 2023. Retrieved November 15, 2023.
30. *^ <#cite_ref-30>* Smith, Allan; Gomez, Henry J. (November 7, 2022).
    "Republicans switched gears to focus on issues such as inflation and
    crime that poll highest among voter concerns" <https://
    www.nbcnews.com/politics/2022-election/democrats-press-threat-
    democracy-campaigns-final-days-gop-candidates-s-rcna55806>. /NBC
    News/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221107232800/https://
    www.nbcnews.com/politics/2022-election/democrats-press-threat-
    democracy-campaigns-final-days-gop-candidates-s-rcna55806> from the
    original on November 7, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2023.
31. *^ <#cite_ref-31>* "Is Our Democracy Under Threat?" <https://
    www.rutgers.edu/news/our-democracy-under-threat>. /www.rutgers.edu/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221025225321/https://
    www.rutgers.edu/news/our-democracy-under-threat> from the original
    on October 25, 2022. Retrieved May 3, 2023.
32. *^ <#cite_ref-32>* McArdle, Megan (May 21, 2015). "2016 Might Look
    Safe to Democrats. But 2024?" <http://www.bloombergview.com/
    articles/2015-05-21/2016-might-look-safe-to-democrats-but-2024->. /
    Bloomberg <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloomberg_L.P.>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20151023080613/http://
    www.bloombergview.com/articles/2015-05-21/2016-might-look-safe-to-
    democrats-but-2024-> from the original on October 23, 2015.
    Retrieved October 30, 2015.
33. *^ <#cite_ref-33>* Janda, Kenneth (2013). /The Challenge of
    Democracy: American Government in Global Politics/. Wadsworth.
    p. 218. ISBN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISBN_(identifier)> 978-1-133-60230-9 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Special:BookSources/978-1-133-60230-9>.
34. *^ <#cite_ref-34>* Neale, Thomas (2012). /The Electoral College: How
    It Works in Contemporary Presidential Elections/ <https://
    www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL32611.pdf> (PDF). Congressional Research
    Service <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Congressional_Research_Service>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20201004222933/https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL32611.pdf> (PDF)
    from the original on October 4, 2020. Retrieved October 30, 2015.
35. *^ <#cite_ref-35>* Dorman, John L. "Six battleground states will
    hold the key to the White House in 2024" <https://
    www.businessinsider.com/battleground-states-2024-presidential-
    election-road-white-house-2022-12>. /Business Insider/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20221224171653/https://
    www.businessinsider.com/battleground-states-2024-presidential-
    election-road-white-house-2022-12> from the original on December 24,
    2022. Retrieved May 25, 2023.
36. *^ <#cite_ref-36>* "North Carolina may be the hottest political
    battleground of 2024" <https://www.economist.com/united-states/
    2023/06/15/north-carolina-may-be-the-hottest-political-battleground-
    of-2024>. /The Economist/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0013-0613 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0013-0613>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230615153748/
    https://www.economist.com/united-states/2023/06/15/north-carolina-
    may-be-the-hottest-political-battleground-of-2024> from the original
    on June 15, 2023. Retrieved August 9, 2023.
37. *^ <#cite_ref-37>* Mondeaux, Cami (December 30, 2022). "Who's in and
    who's out: Here are the battleground states to watch in 2024"
    <https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/here-are-battleground-
    states-to-watch-in-2024>. /The Washington Examiner/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20221230151848/https://
    www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/here-are-battleground-states-to-
    watch-in-2024> from the original on December 30, 2022. Retrieved May
    25, 2023.
38. *^ <#cite_ref-38>* Kaul, Greta (November 4, 2020). "Biden wins
    Minnesota, continuing decades-long Democratic streak" <https://
    www.minnpost.com/elections/2020/11/biden-wins-minnesota-continuing-
    decades-long-democratic-streak/>. /minnpost.com/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20201104075439/https://www.minnpost.com/
    elections/2020/11/biden-wins-minnesota-continuing-decades-long-
    democratic-streak/> from the original on November 4, 2020. Retrieved
    June 16, 2023.
39. *^ <#cite_ref-39>* Smith, David (March 8, 2021). "'We're making our
    way': how Virginia became the most progressive southern state"
    <https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/mar/07/us-virginia-
    progressive-southern-state>. /The Guardian/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20210308072806/https://www.theguardian.com/us-
    news/2021/mar/07/us-virginia-progressive-southern-state> from the
    original on March 8, 2021. Retrieved May 25, 2023.
40. *^ <#cite_ref-Levitz-2022_40-0>* Levitz, Eric (October 19, 2022).
    "How the Diploma Divide Is Remaking American Politics" <https://
    nymag.com/intelligencer/2022/10/education-polarization-diploma-
    divide-democratic-party-working-class.html>. /New York <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_(magazine)>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20221020215535/https://nymag.com/intelligencer/
    2022/10/education-polarization-diploma-divide-democratic-party-
    working-class.html> from the original on October 20, 2022. Retrieved
    October 21, 2022. "Blue America is an increasingly wealthy and well-
    educated place. Throughout the second half of the 20th century,
    Americans without college degrees were more likely than university
    graduates to vote Democratic. But that gap began narrowing in the
    late 1960s before finally flipping in 2004... A more educated
    Democratic coalition is, naturally, a more affluent one... In every
    presidential election from 1948 to 2012, white voters in the top 5
    percent of America's income distribution were more Republican than
    those in the bottom 95 percent. Now, the opposite is true: Among
    America's white majority, the rich voted to the left of the middle
    class and the poor in 2016 and 2020, while the poor voted to the
    right of the middle class and the rich."
41. *^ <#cite_ref-41>* Edsall, Thomas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Thomas_B._Edsall> (February 1, 2023). "How Much Longer Can 'Vote
    Blue No Matter Who!' Last?" <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/02/01/
    opinion/democratic-party-coalition.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0362-4331>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230208032609/https://www.nytimes.com/
    2023/02/01/opinion/democratic-party-coalition.html> from the
    original on February 8, 2023. Retrieved February 8, 2023.
42. *^ <#cite_ref-42>* Goldberg, Zach (January 31, 2023). "The Rise of
    College-Educated Democrats" <https://www.manhattan-institute.org/
    rise-of-college-educated-democrats>. /Manhattan Institute/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230208032134/https://www.manhattan-
    institute.org/rise-of-college-educated-democrats> from the original
    on February 8, 2023. Retrieved February 8, 2023.
43. *^ <#cite_ref-Munis-2022_43-0>* Munis, Kal; Jacobs, Nicholas
    (October 20, 2022). "Why Resentful Rural Americans Vote Republican"
    <https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/10/20/midterms-rural-
    urban-divide-resentment/>. /The Washington Post <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Washington_Post>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20221020235510/https://www.washingtonpost.com/
    politics/2022/10/20/midterms-rural-urban-divide-resentment/> from
    the original on October 20, 2022. Retrieved October 21, 2022.
    "...that the disproportionately White, older, more religious, less
    affluent and less highly educated voters who live in rural areas are
    more likely to hold socially conservative views generally championed
    by Republicans. Meanwhile, urban areas are filled with younger, more
    racially diverse, more highly educated and more affluent people who
    hold the more socially liberal views generally championed by Democrats."
44. *^ <#cite_ref-44>* Brownstein, Roland (August 10, 2021). "This may
    be the Democrats' last chance to recover working-class Whites"
    <https://www.cnn.com/2021/08/10/politics/democrats-blue-collar-
    voters/index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230526052428/https://www.cnn.com/2021/08/10/politics/democrats-
    blue-collar-voters/index.html> from the original on May 26, 2023.
    Retrieved May 25, 2023.
45. *^ <#cite_ref-45>* Charen, Mona (November 9, 2018). "Who Votes
    Republican" <https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2018/11/09/
    who_votes_republican_138604.html#!>. /RealClearPolitics.com/. Real
    Clear Politics. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20181116084528/https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/
    2018/11/09/who_votes_republican_138604.html#!> from the original on
    November 16, 2018. Retrieved May 25, 2023.
46. *^ <#cite_ref-46>* Cost, Jay. "Losing the Suburbs" <https://
    www.aei.org/articles/losing-the-suburbs/>. /AEI.com/. AEI. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20200221003525/https://www.aei.org/
    articles/losing-the-suburbs/> from the original on February 21,
    2020. Retrieved May 25, 2023.
47. *^ <#cite_ref-47>* Gonyea, Don. "Amid Changing Political Landscape,
    Suburbs No Longer Belong To GOP" <https://www.npr.org/
    2021/03/31/982953836/amid-changing-political-landscape-suburbs-no-
    longer-belong-to-gop>. /NPR/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20210331093657/https://www.npr.org/2021/03/31/982953836/amid-
    changing-political-landscape-suburbs-no-longer-belong-to-gop> from
    the original on March 31, 2021. Retrieved May 25, 2023.
48. *^ <#cite_ref-48>* Goldmacher, Shane (November 5, 2023). "Trump
    Leads in 5 Critical States as Voters Blast Biden, Times/Siena Poll
    Finds" <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/05/us/politics/biden-
    trump-2024-poll.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://
    www.worldcat.org/issn/0362-4331>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231128001050/https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/05/us/politics/
    biden-trump-2024-poll.html> from the original on November 28, 2023.
    Retrieved November 28, 2023.
49. *^ <#cite_ref-49>* Cohn, Nate (September 15, 2023). "Why Are
    Democrats Losing Ground Among Nonwhite Voters? 5 Theories" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/09/15/upshot/democrats-biden-hispanic-black-
    voters.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0362-4331>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231128001115/
    https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/15/upshot/democrats-biden-hispanic-
    black-voters.html> from the original on November 28, 2023. Retrieved
    November 28, 2023.
50. *^ <#cite_ref-50>* Cohn, Nate (September 5, 2023). "Consistent Signs
    of Erosion in Black and Hispanic Support for Biden" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/09/05/upshot/biden-trump-black-hispanic-
    voters.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0362-4331>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231127151016/
    https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/05/upshot/biden-trump-black-
    hispanic-voters.html> from the original on November 27, 2023.
    Retrieved November 28, 2023.
51. *^ <#cite_ref-51>* Shalal, Andrea (October 31, 2023). "Arab American
    support for Biden, Democrats plummets over Israel, poll shows"
    <https://www.reuters.com/world/us/arab-american-support-biden-
    democrats-plummets-over-israel-poll-2023-10-31/>. /Reuters/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231202222334/https://
    www.reuters.com/world/us/arab-american-support-biden-democrats-
    plummets-over-israel-poll-2023-10-31/> from the original on December
    2, 2023. Retrieved November 28, 2023.
52. *^ <#cite_ref-52>* Cohn, Nate (November 27, 2023). "Why Biden's
    Weakness Among Young Voters Should Be Taken Seriously" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/11/27/upshot/poll-biden-young-voters.html>. /
    The New York Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0362-4331>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231128000939/
    https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/27/upshot/poll-biden-young-
    voters.html> from the original on November 28, 2023. Retrieved
    November 28, 2023.
53. *^ <#cite_ref-53>* adamcarlson8 (December 4, 2023). "What Do
    Aggregated Crosstabs Tell Us About 2024?" <https://split-ticket.org/
    2023/12/04/what-do-aggregated-crosstabs-tell-us-about-2024/>. /Split
    Ticket/. Retrieved January 27, 2024.|{{cite web <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Cite_web>}}|: CS1 maint: numeric
    names: authors list (link <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Category:CS1_maint:_numeric_names:_authors_list>)
54. *^ <#cite_ref-54>* Saenz, MJ Lee, Arlette (January 12, 2024). "Biden
    campaign grapples with undecided voters who don't yet believe Trump
    could be the nominee | CNN Politics" <https://www.cnn.com/
    2024/01/12/politics/trump-biden-2024-campaign/index.html>. /CNN/.
    Retrieved January 27, 2024.|{{cite web <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Template:Cite_web>}}|: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list
    (link <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Category:CS1_maint:_multiple_names:_authors_list>)
55. *^ <#cite_ref-55>* Mellman, Mark (December 6, 2023). "Mellman: The
    problem with interpreting poll crosstabs" <https://thehill.com/
    opinion/4344490-mellman-the-problem-with-interpreting-poll-
    crosstabs/>. /The Hill/. Retrieved January 27, 2024.
56. *^ <#cite_ref-56>* Faria, Zachary (November 7, 2023). "Trump's
    strong general election polling is a mirage" <https://
    www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/2437662/trumps-strong-general-
    election-polling-is-a-mirage/>. /Washington Examiner/. Retrieved
    January 27, 2024.
57. *^ <#cite_ref-57>* "The Unpollable Election" <https://
    news.yahoo.com/unpollable-election-230245011.html>. /Yahoo News/.
    December 19, 2023. Retrieved January 27, 2024.
58. *^ <#cite_ref-58>* "For Biden, youth vote polling is a warning, not
    the apocalypse" <https://www.brookings.edu/articles/for-biden-youth-
    vote-polling-is-a-warning-not-the-apocalypse/>. /Brookings/.
    Retrieved January 27, 2024.
59. *^ <#cite_ref-59>* Fortinsky, Sarah (December 20, 2023). "Young
    voters right now overwhelmingly prefer Biden: The Economist/YouGov
    poll" <https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4369951-young-voters-
    right-now-prefer-biden-poll/>. /The Hill/. Retrieved January 27, 2024.
60. *^ <#cite_ref-60>* "The Economist/YouGov Poll" <https://
    d3nkl3psvxxpe9.cloudfront.net/documents/econTabReport_i9N6Z0N.pdf>
    (PDF). January 21–23, 2024.
61. *^ <#cite_ref-61>* Enten, Harry <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Harry_Enten> (November 11, 2023). "How RFK Jr. could change the
    outcome of the 2024 election" <https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/11/
    politics/robert-kennedy-rfk-2024-election-outcome/index.html>. CNN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNN>.com. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231120223841/https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/11/
    politics/robert-kennedy-rfk-2024-election-outcome/index.html> from
    the original on November 20, 2023. Retrieved November 21, 2023.
62. *^ <#cite_ref-62>* Blake, Aaron (October 27, 2023). "Third-party
    candidates see some of their best polls since Ross Perot" <https://
    www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/10/27/presidential-election-
    third-parties/>. /The Washington Post <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/The_Washington_Post>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231103180057/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/10/27/
    presidential-election-third-parties/> from the original on November
    3, 2023. Retrieved November 5, 2023.
63. *^ <#cite_ref-63>* Aleem, Zeeshan (November 3, 2023). "What Robert
    Kennedy Jr.'s shocking poll numbers say about 2024" <https://
    www.msnbc.com/opinion/msnbc-opinion/robert-f-kennedy-jr-poll-biden-
    trump-rcna123356>. /MSNBC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MSNBC>/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231104193319/https://
    www.msnbc.com/opinion/msnbc-opinion/robert-f-kennedy-jr-poll-biden-
    trump-rcna123356> from the original on November 4, 2023. Retrieved
    November 5, 2023.
64. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Kimball-2023_64-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Kimball-2023_64-1> Kimball, Spencer (February 10, 2023).
    "Republicans back lawsuit to overturn FDA approval of abortion pill
    and pull the medication from U.S. market" <https://www.cnbc.com/
    2023/02/10/abortion-pill-states-says-pulling-medication-would-have-
    devastating-consequences.html>. /CNBC/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230319054605/https://www.cnbc.com/2023/02/10/
    abortion-pill-states-says-pulling-medication-would-have-devastating-
    consequences.html> from the original on March 19, 2023. Retrieved
    April 15, 2023.
65. *^ <#cite_ref-65>* Feiner, Lauren (May 20, 2022). "Democratic
    senators concerned about phone location data being used to track
    people seeking abortions" <https://www.cnbc.com/2022/05/20/
    democrats-urge-ftc-protect-data-privacy-for-people-seeking-
    abortions.html>. /CNBC/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220520165916/https://www.cnbc.com/2022/05/20/democrats-urge-ftc-
    protect-data-privacy-for-people-seeking-abortions.html> from the
    original on May 20, 2022. Retrieved April 12, 2023.
66. *^ <#cite_ref-66>* Kilgore, Ed (June 21, 2023). "House GOP Forges
    Ahead on Wildly Unpopular National Abortion Ban" <https://nymag.com/
    intelligencer/2023/06/house-gop-forges-ahead-on-unpopular-national-
    abortion-ban.html>. /Intelligencer/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231115065948/https://nymag.com/intelligencer/
    2023/06/house-gop-forges-ahead-on-unpopular-national-abortion-
    ban.html> from the original on November 15, 2023. Retrieved November
    15, 2023.
67. *^ <#cite_ref-67>* https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/17/briefing/
    immigration-policy-democrats.html <https://www.nytimes.com/
    2024/01/17/briefing/immigration-policy-democrats.html>
68. *^ <#cite_ref-68>* "Americans agree that the 2024 election will be
    pivotal for democracy, but for different reasons" <https://
    apnews.com/article/democracy-2024-election-trump-biden-
    poll-39309519c8473175c25ab5a305e629ba>. /AP News/. December 15, 2023.
69. *^ <#cite_ref-69>* "America's immigration policies are failing"
    <https://www.economist.com/united-states/2024/01/25/how-americas-
    failed-immigration-policies-might-cost-joe-biden-the-election> – via
    The Economist.
70. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-npr-asylum_70-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    npr-asylum_70-1> ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-npr-asylum_70-2> https://
    www.npr.org/2023/12/13/1218935981/republican-candidates-immigration
    <https://www.npr.org/2023/12/13/1218935981/republican-candidates-
    immigration>
71. *^ <#cite_ref-71>* Ebrahimji, Alisha (December 30, 2023). "Texas is
    sending asylum seekers to major cities by bus with little notice. A
    coalition of mayors implement new rules to slow the surge" <https://
    www.cnn.com/2023/12/30/us/asylum-seekers-texas-city-mayors/
    index.html>. /CNN/.
72. *^ <#cite_ref-72>* https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/rfk-jr-sides-
    with-texas-in-border-battle-against-biden-admin/ar-BB1hgIJY
    <https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/rfk-jr-sides-with-texas-in-
    border-battle-against-biden-admin/ar-BB1hgIJY>
73. *^ <#cite_ref-NYT_DvA_73-0>* Baker, Peter (July 25, 2023). "Biden
    Takes His Battle for Democracy Case by Case" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/07/25/us/politics/biden-democracy-
    autocracy.html#:~:text=Biden%20has%20sponsored%20two%20%E2%80%9Csummits,grown%20weaker%2C%20not%20stronger.%E2%80%9D>. /The New York Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231210004722/https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/25/us/politics/biden-democracy-autocracy.html#:~:text=Biden%20has%20sponsored%20two%20%E2%80%9Csummits,grown%20weaker%2C%20not%20stronger.%E2%80%9D> from the original on December 10, 2023. Retrieved December 9, 2023.
74. *^ <#cite_ref-AP_Authoritarian_Fears_74-0>* Jill Colvin; Bill Barrow
    (December 7, 2023). "Trump's vow to only be a dictator on 'day one'
    follows growing worry over his authoritarian rhetoric" <https://
    apnews.com/article/trump-hannity-dictator-authoritarian-
    presidential-election-f27e7e9d7c13fabbe3ae7dd7f1235c72>. /Associated
    Press/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231208055611/
    https://apnews.com/article/trump-hannity-dictator-authoritarian-
    presidential-election-f27e7e9d7c13fabbe3ae7dd7f1235c72> from the
    original on December 8, 2023. Retrieved December 8, 2023.
75. *^ <#cite_ref-NYT_Authoritarian_Bent_75-0>* Michael C. Bender;
    Michael Gold (November 20, 2023). "Trump's Dire Words Raise New
    Fears About His Authoritarian Bent" <https://www.nytimes.com/
    2023/11/20/us/politics/trump-rhetoric-fascism.html>. /The New York
    Times/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231208010902/
    https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/20/us/politics/trump-rhetoric-
    fascism.html> from the original on December 8, 2023. Retrieved
    December 8, 2023.
76. *^ <#cite_ref-Guardian_authoritarian_76-0>* Stone, Peter (November
    22, 2023). "'Openly authoritarian campaign': Trump's threats of
    revenge fuel alarm" <https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/nov/
    22/trump-revenge-game-plan-alarm>. /The Guardian/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231127003512/https://
    www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/nov/22/trump-revenge-game-plan-
    alarm> from the original on November 27, 2023. Retrieved December 9,
    2023.
77. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-NYT_Dictator_Talk_77-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-NYT_Dictator_Talk_77-1> Baker, Peter (December 9, 2023).
    "Talk of a Trump Dictatorship Charges the American Political Debate"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/09/us/politics/trump-
    dictatorship.html>. /The New York Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231209203046/https://www.nytimes.com/
    2023/12/09/us/politics/trump-dictatorship.html> from the original on
    December 9, 2023. Retrieved December 9, 2023.
78. *^ <#cite_ref-Snopes_Constitution_78-0>* Ibrahim, Nur (December 5,
    2022). "Did Trump Say Election Fraud Allows for 'Termination' of US
    Constitution?" <https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/trump-termination-
    us-constitution/>. /Snopes/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230531041042/https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/trump-termination-
    us-constitution/> from the original on May 31, 2023. Retrieved
    December 9, 2023. "In sum, Trump posted on Truth Social that, what
    he believed to be, election fraud in the 2020 presidential election
    allows "for the termination of all rules, regulations, and articles,
    even those found in the Constitution." For that reason, we rated
    this claim "Correct Attribution.""
79. *^ <#cite_ref-79>* Astor, Maggie (December 4, 2022). "Trump's Call
    for 'Termination' of Constitution Draws Rebukes" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2022/12/04/us/politics/trump-constitution-
    republicans.html>. /The New York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/The_New_York_Times>/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0362-4331>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221204194225/
    https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/04/us/politics/trump-constitution-
    republicans.html> from the original on December 4, 2022. Retrieved
    December 4, 2022.
80. *^ <#cite_ref-CBS_Dictator_80-0>* Olivia Ronaldi (December 6, 2023).
    "Trump says he would be a dictator only on "Day One" if he wins a
    second term" <https://www.cbsnews.com/news/donald-trump-sean-
    hannity-dictator-day-one/>. /CBS News/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231206165724/https://www.cbsnews.com/news/
    donald-trump-sean-hannity-dictator-day-one/> from the original on
    December 6, 2023. Retrieved December 6, 2023.
81. *^ <#cite_ref-Atlantic_Dictator_81-0>* David A. Graham (December 6,
    2023). "Trump Says He'll Be a Dictator on 'Day One'" <https://
    www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2023/12/trump-says-hell-be-a-
    dictator-on-day-one/676247/>. /The Atlantic/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231206170857/https://www.theatlantic.com/
    ideas/archive/2023/12/trump-says-hell-be-a-dictator-on-day-one/
    676247/> from the original on December 6, 2023. Retrieved December
    6, 2023.
82. *^ <#cite_ref-Politico_Dictator_2_82-0>* Adam Wren (December 6,
    2023). "Trump's 'dictator' remark jolts the 2024 campaign - and
    tests his GOP rivals on debate day" <https://www.politico.com/news/
    2023/12/06/trump-dictator-remark-2024-campaign-00130392>. /
    Politico/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231206192854/
    https://www.politico.com/news/2023/12/06/trump-dictator-remark-2024-
    campaign-00130392> from the original on December 6, 2023. Retrieved
    December 6, 2023.
83. *^ <#cite_ref-USA_Today_Dictator_83-0>* David Jackson (December 6,
    2023). "Donald Trump says he will be a 'dictator' only on 'day one.'
    Then he'll focus on drilling" <https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/
    politics/elections/2023/12/05/trump-dictator-day-one/71816204007/
    >. /USA Today/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231206054726/http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/
    elections/2023/12/05/trump-dictator-day-one/71816204007/> from the
    original on December 6, 2023. Retrieved December 6, 2023.
84. *^ <#cite_ref-NYT_Dictator_84-0>* Michael Gold (December 6, 2023).
    "Trump Says He Wouldn't Be a Dictator, 'Except for Day 1'" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/12/05/us/politics/trump-fox-news-abuse-
    power.html>. /The New York Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231206042828/https://www.nytimes.com/
    2023/12/05/us/politics/trump-fox-news-abuse-power.html> from the
    original on December 6, 2023. Retrieved December 6, 2023.
85. *^ <#cite_ref-WaPo_Dictator_85-0>* Mariana Alfero (December 6,
    2023). "Trump says he wouldn't be a dictator 'except for Day One'"
    <https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/12/06/trump-dictator-
    day-one-hannity/>. /Washington Post/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231209000947/https://www.washingtonpost.com/
    politics/2023/12/06/trump-dictator-day-one-hannity/> from the
    original on December 9, 2023. Retrieved December 6, 2023.
86. *^ <#cite_ref-NYT_Justice_Dpt_87-0>* Swan, Jonathan; Savage,
    Charlie; Haberman, Maggie (June 15, 2023). "The Radical Strategy
    Behind Trump's Promise to 'Go After' Biden" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/06/15/us/politics/trump-indictment-justice-
    department.html>. /The New York Times/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231209211754/https://www.nytimes.com/
    2023/06/15/us/politics/trump-indictment-justice-department.html>
    from the original on December 9, 2023. Retrieved December 9, 2023.
87. *^ <#cite_ref-88>* "Trump Is Lying About Another Election Being
    'Stolen' From Him – The One Still A Year Away" <https://
    www.huffpost.com/entry/trump-2024-election-
    lies_n_652040d0e4b09f4b8d401148>. /HuffPost/. October 7, 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231007162752/https://
    www.huffpost.com/entry/trump-2024-election-
    lies_n_652040d0e4b09f4b8d401148> from the original on October 7,
    2023. Retrieved October 7, 2023.
88. *^ <#cite_ref-CNN_Vote_Restrict_89-0>* Mizelle, Shawna (February 22,
    2023). "Lawmakers in 32 states have introduced bills to restrict
    voting so far this legislative session" <https://www.cnn.com/
    2023/02/22/politics/restrict-voting-bills-introduced-us/
    index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231210004722/https://www.cnn.com/2023/02/22/politics/restrict-
    voting-bills-introduced-us/index.html> from the original on December
    10, 2023. Retrieved December 9, 2023.
89. *^ <#cite_ref-538_Elections_Impact_90-0>* Skelley, Geoffrey (May 17,
    2021). "How The Republican Push To Restrict Voting Could Affect Our
    Elections" <https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-the-republican-
    push-to-restrict-voting-could-affect-our-elections/>. /
    FiveThirtyEight/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231021064741/https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/how-the-
    republican-push-to-restrict-voting-could-affect-our-elections/> from
    the original on October 21, 2023. Retrieved December 9, 2023.
90. *^ <#cite_ref-91>* Gardner, Amy (March 26, 2021). "After Trump tried
    to intervene in the 2020 vote, state Republicans are moving to take
    more control of elections" <https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/
    republicans-election-control/2021/03/26/064fffcc-8cb4-11eb-
    a730-1b4ed9656258_story.html>. /The Washington Post <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Washington_Post>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20220614185326/https://www.washingtonpost.com/
    politics/republicans-election-control/2021/03/26/064fffcc-8cb4-11eb-
    a730-1b4ed9656258_story.html> from the original on June 14, 2022.
    Retrieved December 9, 2023.
91. *^ <#cite_ref-92>* Goldmacher, Shane (October 17, 2022).
    "Republicans Gain Edge as Voters Worry About Economy, Times/Siena
    Poll Finds" <https://www.nytimes.com/2022/10/17/us/politics/
    republicans-economy-nyt-siena-poll.html>. /The New York Times
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20221020235453/https://www.nytimes.com/
    2022/10/17/us/politics/republicans-economy-nyt-siena-poll.html> from
    the original on October 20, 2022. Retrieved October 21, 2022.
92. *^ <#cite_ref-93>* Montanaro, Domenico (March 29, 2023). "Poll:
    Dangers for both parties on the economy, crime and transgender
    rights" <https://www.npr.org/2023/03/29/1166486046/poll-economy-
    inflation-transgender-rights-republicans-democrats-biden>. /NPR
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NPR>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230329090442/https://www.npr.org/
    2023/03/29/1166486046/poll-economy-inflation-transgender-rights-
    republicans-democrats-biden> from the original on March 29, 2023.
    Retrieved May 10, 2023.
93. *^ <#cite_ref-94>* Roche, Darragh (July 19, 2023). "Election 2024
    poll: How voters feel about key issues" <https://www.newsweek.com/
    election-2024-poll-how-voters-feel-about-key-issues-1813658>. /
    Newsweek/.
94. *^ <#cite_ref-95>* Siders, David (April 2, 2020). "How the
    coronavirus is shaping the 2024 presidential race" <https://
    www.politico.com/news/2020/04/02/coronavirus-governors-2024-
    election-160125>. /Politico <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Politico>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20200611000845/
    https://www.politico.com/news/2020/04/02/coronavirus-governors-2024-
    election-160125> from the original on June 11, 2020. Retrieved June
    11, 2020.
95. *^ <#cite_ref-deloitte_96-0>* Kalish, Ira; Wolf, Michael (February
    18, 2022). "Global surge in inflation" <https://www2.deloitte.com/
    xe/en/insights/economy/is-the-global-surge-in-inflation-here-to-
    stay.html>. Deloitte <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deloitte>.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220620111910/https://
    www2.deloitte.com/xe/en/insights/economy/is-the-global-surge-in-
    inflation-here-to-stay.html> from the original on June 20, 2022.
96. *^ <#cite_ref-97>* Mui, Christine (June 13, 2022). "Top economist
    Mark Zandi says forget Biden's stimulus—Putin's war in Ukraine is by
    far the biggest driver of inflation" <https://fortune.com/
    2022/06/13/mark-zandi-moodys-chief-economist-inflation-russia-
    invasion-ukraine/>. /Fortune/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20220615003113/https://fortune.com/2022/06/13/mark-zandi-moodys-
    chief-economist-inflation-russia-invasion-ukraine/> from the
    original on June 15, 2022.
97. *^ <#cite_ref-98>* Enten, Harry (December 21, 2021). "Biden's
    economic ratings are worse than Carter's" <https://www.cnn.com/
    2021/12/21/politics/joe-biden-jimmy-carter-economic-ratings/
    index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20211225065557/https://www.cnn.com/2021/12/21/politics/joe-biden-
    jimmy-carter-economic-ratings/index.html> from the original on
    December 25, 2021.
98. *^ <#cite_ref-99>* Panetta, Grace (April 25, 2023). "Biden's
    reelection could hinge on how much women voters trust him on the
    economy" <https://19thnews.org/2023/04/president-joe-biden-
    reelection-women-voters-economy/>. /The 19th/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230425103717/https://19thnews.org/2023/04/
    president-joe-biden-reelection-women-voters-economy/> from the
    original on April 25, 2023. Retrieved May 11, 2023.
99. *^ <#cite_ref-100>* Panetta, Grace (May 8, 2023). "Why child care
    can't be overlooked as an issue in 2024" <https://19thnews.org/
    2023/05/child-care-issue-election-2024/>. /The 19th/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230508185636/https://19thnews.org/
    2023/05/child-care-issue-election-2024/> from the original on May 8,
    2023. Retrieved May 11, 2023.
100. *^ <#cite_ref-101>* Minsky, Adam S. "Biden Administration Has
    Approved $32 Billion In Student Loan Forgiveness, And More Is Coming
    — Here's How To Apply" <https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamminsky/
    2022/08/18/biden-administration-approves-32-billion-in-student-loan-
    forgiveness-and-more-is-coming---heres-how-to-apply/>. /Forbes/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230625174146/https://
    www.forbes.com/sites/adamminsky/2022/08/18/biden-administration-
    approves-32-billion-in-student-loan-forgiveness-and-more-is-
    coming---heres-how-to-apply/> from the original on June 25, 2023.
    Retrieved June 25, 2023.
101. *^ <#cite_ref-102>* Nicholas, Peter (June 30, 2023). "Biden moves
    quickly in effort to reassure young voters on student loans"
    <https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/joe-biden/biden-moves-quickly-
    effort-reassure-young-voters-student-loans-rcna92028>. /NBC News/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230713052221/https://
    www.nbcnews.com/politics/joe-biden/biden-moves-quickly-effort-
    reassure-young-voters-student-loans-rcna92028> from the original on
    July 13, 2023. Retrieved July 13, 2023.
102. *^ <#cite_ref-103>* "FACT SHEET: President Biden Announces Student
    Loan Relief for Borrowers Who Need It Most" <https://
    www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/24/
    fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-student-loan-relief-for-
    borrowers-who-need-it-most/>. /The White House/. August 24, 2022.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220824155853/https://
    www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/24/
    fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-student-loan-relief-for-
    borrowers-who-need-it-most/> from the original on August 24, 2022.
    Retrieved June 25, 2023.
103. *^ <#cite_ref-104>* Sherman, Mark (June 30, 2023). "The Supreme
    Court rejects Biden's plan to wipe away $400 billion in student loan
    debt" <https://apnews.com/article/student-loan-forgiveness-supreme-
    court-653c2e9c085863bdbf81f125f87669fa>. /Associated Press <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230630144542/https://apnews.com/article/
    student-loan-forgiveness-supreme-
    court-653c2e9c085863bdbf81f125f87669fa> from the original on June
    30, 2023. Retrieved June 30, 2023.
104. *^ <#cite_ref-105>* Potts, Monica (June 30, 2023). "The Supreme
    Court Killed Biden's Student Loan Forgiveness Plan. What Does That
    Mean For 2024?" <https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/supreme-court-
    student-loan-forgiveness-biden/>. /FiveThirtyEight/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230713052222/https://
    fivethirtyeight.com/features/supreme-court-student-loan-forgiveness-
    biden/> from the original on July 13, 2023. Retrieved July 13, 2023.
105. *^ <#cite_ref-106>* Trudo, Hanna (July 8, 2023). "Student debt:
    Democrats seek to galvanize young voters over Supreme Court ruling"
    <https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4086053-student-debt-
    democrats-seek-to-galvanize-young-voters-over-supreme-court-ruling/
    >. /The Hill/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230709013230/
    https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4086053-student-debt-
    democrats-seek-to-galvanize-young-voters-over-supreme-court-ruling/>
    from the original on July 9, 2023. Retrieved July 9, 2023.
106. *^ <#cite_ref-107>* Lim, Naomi (May 5, 2023). "Biden makes women the
    key to his 2024 reelection plans" <https://
    www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/white-house/biden-women-2024-
    election>. /Washington Examiner/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230506100621/https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/white-
    house/biden-women-2024-election> from the original on May 6, 2023.
    Retrieved May 11, 2023.
107. *^ <#cite_ref-108>* Wilson, Reid (June 23, 2021). "GOP sees critical
    race theory battle as potent midterm weapon" <https://thehill.com/
    homenews/campaign/559732-republicans-see-critical-race-theory-as-
    new-front-in-ongoing-culture-wars/>. /The Hill/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20210623003414/https://thehill.com/homenews/
    campaign/559732-republicans-see-critical-race-theory-as-new-front-
    in-ongoing-culture-wars/> from the original on June 23, 2021.
    Retrieved June 25, 2023.
108. *^ <#cite_ref-109>* Asmelash, Leah (May 5, 2021). "A school district
    tried to address racism, a group of parents fought back" <https://
    www.cnn.com/2021/05/05/us/critical-race-theory-southlake-carroll-
    isd-trnd/index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20211019055403/https://www.cnn.com/2021/05/05/us/critical-race-
    theory-southlake-carroll-isd-trnd/index.html> from the original on
    October 19, 2021. Retrieved June 25, 2023.
109. *^ <#cite_ref-110>* Snyder, Timothy (June 29, 2021). "The War on
    History Is a War on Democracy" <https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/29/
    magazine/memory-laws.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://
    www.worldcat.org/issn/0362-4331>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20210704024528/https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/29/magazine/
    memory-laws.html> from the original on July 4, 2021. Retrieved June
    25, 2023.
110. *^ <#cite_ref-111>* Allen, Jonathan; Dixon, Matt (October 20, 2023).
    "Israel-Hamas war ignites fight between Ron DeSantis and Nikki
    Haley" <https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-election/israel-hamas-
    war-ignites-fight-ron-desantis-nikki-haley-rcna121203>. /NBC News/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231103130755/https://
    www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-election/israel-hamas-war-ignites-
    fight-ron-desantis-nikki-haley-rcna121203> from the original on
    November 3, 2023. Retrieved November 3, 2023.
111. *^ <#cite_ref-112>* Liptak, Kevin (February 20, 2023). "Biden makes
    surprise visit to Ukraine for first time since full-scale war began"
    <https://www.cnn.com/2023/02/20/politics/biden-ukraine-zelensky-
    visit-one-year-war-anniversary-intl-hnk/index.html>. /CNN/. Archived
    <https://archive.today/20230222013639/https://www.cnn.com/
    2023/02/20/politics/biden-ukraine-zelensky-visit-one-year-war-
    anniversary-intl-hnk/index.html> from the original on February 22,
    2023. Retrieved June 29, 2023.
112. *^ <#cite_ref-113>* "US to send $425 million in aid to Ukraine, US
    officials say" <https://apnews.com/article/ukraine-russia-war-
    military-weapons-d8e84c1154054fba53994671b8575710>. /Associated
    Press <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>/. November 2,
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231203061839/https://
    apnews.com/article/ukraine-russia-war-military-weapons-
    d8e84c1154054fba53994671b8575710> from the original on December 3,
    2023. Retrieved November 30, 2023.
113. *^ <#cite_ref-114>* Amanda Macias; Holly Ellyatt (September 6,
    2023). "Blinken announces $1 billion Ukraine aid package during
    surprise visit" <https://www.cnbc.com/2023/09/06/-blinken-makes-
    surprise-visit-to-ukraine-amid-a-growing-debate-over-us-aid.html>. /
    CNBC/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231203061839/https://
    www.cnbc.com/2023/09/06/-blinken-makes-surprise-visit-to-ukraine-
    amid-a-growing-debate-over-us-aid.html> from the original on
    December 3, 2023. Retrieved November 30, 2023.
114. *^ <#cite_ref-115>* Lukpat, Alyssa; Calfas, Jennifer (June 9, 2023).
    "Your Guide to the 2024 Presidential Election" <https://www.wsj.com/
    articles/presidential-election-2024-guide-a264d4fe>. /The Wall
    Street Journal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_Wall_Street_Journal>/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    ISSN_(identifier)> 0099-9660 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0099-9660>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230609174820/
    https://www.wsj.com/articles/presidential-election-2024-guide-
    a264d4fe> from the original on June 9, 2023. Retrieved June 29, 2023.
115. *^ <#cite_ref-116>* Brownstein, Ronald (March 28, 2023). "In 2024,
    Republicans may complete a historic foreign policy reversal"
    <https://www.cnn.com/2023/03/28/politics/gop-foreign-policy-
    debate-2024/index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230328053900/https://www.cnn.com/2023/03/28/politics/gop-
    foreign-policy-debate-2024/index.html> from the original on March
    28, 2023. Retrieved June 29, 2023.
116. *^ <#cite_ref-117>* Meyer, Ken (June 4, 2023). "Vivek Ramaswamy
    Proposes 'Major Concessions to Russia' in Contentious Interview With
    ABC's Martha Raddatz" <https://www.mediaite.com/tv/vivek-ramaswamy-
    proposes-major-concessions-to-russia-in-contentious-interview-with-
    abcs-martha-raddatz/>. /Mediaite/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230604162459/https://www.mediaite.com/tv/
    vivek-ramaswamy-proposes-major-concessions-to-russia-in-contentious-
    interview-with-abcs-martha-raddatz/> from the original on June 4,
    2023. Retrieved August 29, 2023.
117. *^ <#cite_ref-118>* Baker, Peter (October 10, 2023). "In Unforgiving
    Terms, Biden Condemns 'Evil' and 'Abhorrent' Attack on Israel"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/10/us/politics/biden-israel-
    hamas.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331 <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/
    0362-4331>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231012001950/
    https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/10/us/politics/biden-israel-
    hamas.html> from the original on October 12, 2023. Retrieved October
    12, 2023.
118. *^ <#cite_ref-119>* Shear, Michael; Demirjian, Karoun (October 20,
    2023). "Biden Requests $105 Billion Aid Package for Israel, Ukraine
    and Other Crises" <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/20/us/politics/
    biden-aid-israel-ukraine-taiwan-border.html>. /The New York Times/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115072055/https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/10/20/us/politics/biden-aid-israel-ukraine-
    taiwan-border.html> from the original on November 15, 2023.
    Retrieved November 15, 2023.
119. *^ <#cite_ref-120>* Soave, Robby (October 9, 2023). "RFK Jr. Dumps
    Democrats, Libertarian Party Blasts RFK Jr.'s Stance on Israel"
    <https://news.yahoo.com/rfk-jr-dumps-democrats-
    libertarian-212527801.html?
    guccounter=1&guce_referrer=aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbS8&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAAMyQqL-itHQj9YpbwTb5BSRvAYhRsQ-NGN6N2VsyE2kNVjvC5uqHl7gUEv7TKc4BIijV8hmdn1FWY4Dfil3SrOkm7kpBobRzwzEWSzw_conyb5ILqJVpvUm9MDoXYMJjjYqNAhwwthh7eh_KUfRN3Rdd-djv7idhYlsc1MeLTR8X>. /news.yahoo.com/. Yahoo! News. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115012220/https://news.yahoo.com/rfk-jr-dumps-democrats-libertarian-212527801.html?guccounter=1&guce_referrer=aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbS8&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAAMyQqL-itHQj9YpbwTb5BSRvAYhRsQ-NGN6N2VsyE2kNVjvC5uqHl7gUEv7TKc4BIijV8hmdn1FWY4Dfil3SrOkm7kpBobRzwzEWSzw_conyb5ILqJVpvUm9MDoXYMJjjYqNAhwwthh7eh_KUfRN3Rdd-djv7idhYlsc1MeLTR8X> from the original on November 15, 2023. Retrieved November 15, 2023.
120. *^ <#cite_ref-121>* McCammon, Sarah (November 16, 2023). "In new
    poll, Jewish voters express strong support for Biden on Israel"
    <https://www.npr.org/2023/11/16/1213406754/jewish-voters-biden-
    israel-hamas-war>. /National Public Radio <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/National_Public_Radio>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231119230737/https://www.npr.org/2023/11/16/1213406754/jewish-
    voters-biden-israel-hamas-war> from the original on November 19,
    2023. Retrieved November 20, 2023.
121. *^ <#cite_ref-122>* Shalal, Andrea (October 31, 2023). "Arab
    American support for Biden, Democrats plummets over Israel, poll
    shows" <https://www.reuters.com/world/us/arab-american-support-
    biden-democrats-plummets-over-israel-poll-2023-10-31/>. /Reuters/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231121222230/https://
    www.reuters.com/world/us/arab-american-support-biden-democrats-
    plummets-over-israel-poll-2023-10-31/> from the original on November
    21, 2023. Retrieved November 21, 2023.
122. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-:11_123-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-:
    11_123-1> Lange, Jason; Spetalnick, Matt (November 15, 2023). "US
    public support for Israel drops; majority backs a ceasefire,
    Reuters/Ipsos shows" <https://www.reuters.com/world/us-public-
    support-israel-drops-majority-backs-ceasefire-
    reutersipsos-2023-11-15/>. /Reuters/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231116220848/https://www.reuters.com/world/us-
    public-support-israel-drops-majority-backs-ceasefire-
    reutersipsos-2023-11-15/> from the original on November 16, 2023.
    Retrieved November 17, 2023.
123. *^ <#cite_ref-124>* Nazzaro, Miranda (November 16, 2023). "Sympathy
    for Israel plunges among younger voters: Poll" <https://thehill.com/
    homenews/4313515-sympathy-for-israel-plunges-among-younger-voters-
    poll/>. /The Hill/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231116233124/https://thehill.com/homenews/4313515-sympathy-for-
    israel-plunges-among-younger-voters-poll/> from the original on
    November 16, 2023. Retrieved November 17, 2023.
124. *^ <#cite_ref-125>* Larry Levitt (July 20, 2023). "Health Care
    Issues in the Early Stages of the 2024 Election" <https://
    www.kff.org/health-reform/perspective/health-care-issues-in-the-
    early-stages-of-the-2024-election/>. /KFF/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231103044938/https://www.kff.org/health-
    reform/perspective/health-care-issues-in-the-early-stages-of-
    the-2024-election/> from the original on November 3, 2023. Retrieved
    November 3, 2023.
125. *^ <#cite_ref-126>* Bradner, Eric (September 12, 2023). "2024 GOP
    contenders clash over Covid-19 records as they warn against future
    mandates" <https://www.cnn.com/2023/09/12/politics/covid-republican-
    president-candidates-warning/index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231103044938/https://www.cnn.com/2023/09/12/
    politics/covid-republican-president-candidates-warning/index.html>
    from the original on November 3, 2023. Retrieved November 3, 2023.
126. *^ <#cite_ref-:0_127-0>* Benson, Samuel (November 2, 2023). "RFK
    Jr.'s big gamble" <https://www.deseret.com/2023/11/1/23925926/
    robert-kennedy-jr-independent-trump-biden-family>. /Deseret News
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deseret_News>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231102224603/https://www.deseret.com/
    2023/11/1/23925926/robert-kennedy-jr-independent-trump-biden-family>
    from the original on November 2, 2023. Retrieved November 3, 2023.
    "He's shared a number of controversial theories relating to school
    shootings and COVID-19 vaccines. In more recent interviews, however,
    he's taken a more measured approach... Early polls show Kennedy
    polling in the teens or low 20s — a major underdog, but enough to
    put both major party nominees on edge..."
127. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Benson2023_128-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    Benson2023_128-1> Benson, Samuel (November 21, 2023). "Cornel West
    thinks the U.S. is in "spiritual decay." That's why he's running for
    president" <https://www.deseret.com/2023/11/20/23966194/cornel-
    west-2024-salt-lake-city>. /Deseret News <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Deseret_News>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231204135255/https://www.deseret.com/2023/11/20/23966194/cornel-
    west-2024-salt-lake-city> from the original on December 4, 2023.
    Retrieved December 6, 2023.
128. *^ <#cite_ref-129>* Rogers, Kaleigh; Radcliffe, Mary (May 25, 2023).
    "Over 100 Anti-LGBTQ+ Laws Passed In The Last Five Years — Half Of
    Them This Year" <https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/anti-lgbtq-
    laws-red-states/>. /FiveThirtyEight <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    FiveThirtyEight>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230525195300/https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/anti-lgbtq-laws-
    red-states/> from the original on May 25, 2023. Retrieved May 30, 2023.
129. *^ <#cite_ref-130>* "BREAKING: Louisiana Legislature Passes Bills
    Targeting LGBTQ+ Youth" <https://www.hrc.org/press-releases/
    breaking-louisiana-legislature-passes-bills-targeting-lgbtq-
    youth>. /Human Rights Campaign <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Human_Rights_Campaign>/. June 5, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230606140805/https://www.hrc.org/press-
    releases/breaking-louisiana-legislature-passes-bills-targeting-
    lgbtq-youth> from the original on June 6, 2023. Retrieved June 6, 2023.
130. *^ <#cite_ref-131>* "Here's where the 2024 presidential candidates
    stand on LGBTQ+ issues" <https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/2024-
    presidential-candidates-stand-lgbtq-issues/story?id=103313107>. /ABC
    News/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231206183159/https://
    abcnews.go.com/Politics/2024-presidential-candidates-stand-lgbtq-
    issues/story?id=103313107> from the original on December 6, 2023.
    Retrieved January 22, 2024.
131. *^ <#cite_ref-132>* Nehamas, Nicholas; Mazzei, Patricia (May 17,
    2023). "DeSantis Signs Tall Stack of Right-Wing Bills as 2024
    Entrance Nears" <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/17/us/politics/
    desantis-bills-trans-rights.html>. /The New York Times <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230517171115/https://www.nytimes.com/
    2023/05/17/us/politics/desantis-bills-trans-rights.html> from the
    original on May 17, 2023. Retrieved May 30, 2023.
132. *^ <#cite_ref-BidenRunning_133-0>* Rafford, Claire (January 19,
    2022). "Biden commits to Harris as his running mate for 2024"
    <https://www.politico.com/news/2022/01/19/biden-commits-to-harris-
    as-his-running-mate-2024-527418>. /Politico <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politico>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20220127211518/https://www.politico.com/news/2022/01/19/biden-
    commits-to-harris-as-his-running-mate-2024-527418> from the original
    on January 27, 2022. Retrieved January 19, 2022.
133. *^ <#cite_ref-134>* Evans, Gareth (April 25, 2023). "President Joe
    Biden launches 2024 re-election campaign" <https://www.bbc.com/news/
    world-us-canada-65381883>. /BBC News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    BBC_News>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230425102039/
    https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-65381883> from the original
    on April 25, 2023. Retrieved November 10, 2023.
134. *^ <#cite_ref-135>* Garrison, Joey. "VP Kamala Harris becomes
    Republicans' go-to target after Biden launches 2024 reelection bid"
    <https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/2023/04/29/
    biden-harris-republicans-2024/11752523002/>. /USA Today/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230429094950/https://
    www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/2023/04/29/biden-
    harris-republicans-2024/11752523002/> from the original on April 29,
    2023. Retrieved May 1, 2023.
135. *^ <#cite_ref-136>* Gangitano, Alex (November 18, 2021). "Harris
    says 2024 is 'absolutely not' being discussed yet with Biden"
    <https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/582105-harris-
    says-2024-is-absolutely-not-being-discussed-yet-with-biden>. /The
    Hill <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20211119144835/https://thehill.com/
    homenews/administration/582105-harris-says-2024-is-absolutely-not-
    being-discussed-yet-with-biden> from the original on November 19,
    2021. Retrieved November 19, 2021.
136. *^ <#cite_ref-off_the_record_137-0>* Watson, Kathryn (August 15,
    2022). "Rep. Carolyn Maloney says 'off the record', Biden is 'not
    running again'" <https://www.cbsnews.com/news/carolyn-maloney-biden-
    not-running-off-the-record-nyt/>. CBS News <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CBS_News>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20220828000302/https://www.cbsnews.com/news/carolyn-maloney-
    biden-not-running-off-the-record-nyt/> from the original on August
    28, 2022. Retrieved September 3, 2022.
137. *^ <#cite_ref-due_to_age_138-0>* Vakil, Caroline (June 23, 2022).
    "SC Democratic governor candidate says Biden shouldn't run in 2024
    due to age" <https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/3534157-sc-
    democratic-governor-candidate-says-biden-shouldnt-run-in-2024-due-
    to-age/>. /The Hill <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220903064828/https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/3534157-sc-
    democratic-governor-candidate-says-biden-shouldnt-run-in-2024-due-
    to-age/> from the original on September 3, 2022. Retrieved September
    3, 2022.
138. *^ <#cite_ref-joining_139-0>* Reimann, Nicholas (September 9, 2022).
    "Rep. Tim Ryan Suggests Biden Shouldn't Run In 2024—Joining These
    Other Democrats" <https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/
    2022/09/09/rep-tim-ryan-suggests-biden-shouldnt-run-in-2024-joining-
    these-other-democrats/?sh=50137b706233>. /Forbes <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forbes>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20221222195506/https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/
    2022/09/09/rep-tim-ryan-suggests-biden-shouldnt-run-in-2024-joining-
    these-other-democrats/?sh=50137b706233> from the original on
    December 22, 2022. Retrieved December 29, 2022.
139. *^ <#cite_ref-140>* Gittleson, Ben (December 22, 2021). "Biden tells
    ABC's David Muir 'yes' he'll run again, Trump rematch would
    'increase the prospect'" <https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/biden-
    tells-abcs-david-muir-hell-run-trump/story?id=81901418>. ABC News
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ABC_News>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20220130091322/https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/
    biden-tells-abcs-david-muir-hell-run-trump/story?id=81901418> from
    the original on January 30, 2022. Retrieved January 21, 2022.
140. *^ <#cite_ref-141>* Silver, Nate (January 28, 2021). "How Popular Is
    Joe Biden?" <https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/biden-approval-
    rating/>. FiveThirtyEight. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20210128032510/https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/biden-approval-
    rating/> from the original on January 28, 2021. Retrieved June 16, 2023.
141. *^ <#cite_ref-142>* Otterbein, Holly (January 1, 2022). "The left is
    already looking to 2024. Some want to see a Biden primary challenge"
    <https://www.politico.com/news/2022/01/01/progressives-2024-primary-
    challenge-526299>. /Politico <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Politico>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20220107154419/
    https://www.politico.com/news/2022/01/01/progressives-2024-primary-
    challenge-526299> from the original on January 7, 2022. Retrieved
    January 8, 2022.
142. *^ <#cite_ref-143>* Dorman, John L. (January 2, 2022). "Former
    Sanders presidential campaign manager says Biden will have 'a
    progressive challenger' in 2024" <https://www.businessinsider.com/
    biden-progressive-challenger-2024-jeff-weaver-sanders-democratic-
    party-2022-1>. /Business Insider <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Business_Insider>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20220104014213/https://www.businessinsider.com/biden-progressive-
    challenger-2024-jeff-weaver-sanders-democratic-party-2022-1> from
    the original on January 4, 2022. Retrieved January 8, 2022.
143. *^ <#cite_ref-144>* Enten, Harry (December 18, 2022). "How the
    midterms changed the 2024 primaries for Biden and Trump" <https://
    www.cnn.com/2022/12/18/politics/biden-trump-2024-primaries-
    elections-desantis/index.html>. /CNN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    CNN>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221230123609/https://
    www.cnn.com/2022/12/18/politics/biden-trump-2024-primaries-
    elections-desantis/index.html> from the original on December 30,
    2022. Retrieved December 29, 2022.
144. *^ <#cite_ref-APMarianne_145-0>* Weissert, Will (February 27, 2023).
    "Williamson becomes Democratic primary's 1st Biden challenger"
    <https://apnews.com/article/biden-politics-united-states-government-
    district-of-columbia-2022-midterm-elections-
    c843d838db17e2a48a1e01c7abcfd5d4>. /The Associated Press/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231026001131/https://apnews.com/
    article/biden-politics-united-states-government-district-of-
    columbia-2022-midterm-elections-c843d838db17e2a48a1e01c7abcfd5d4>
    from the original on October 26, 2023. Retrieved October 24, 2023.
145. *^ <#cite_ref-146>* McDuffie, McDuffie; Murray, Isabella (April 20,
    2023). "Robert F. Kennedy Jr. launches long shot presidential bid as
    a Democrat" <https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/robert-kennedy-jr-
    launches-long-shot-presidential-bid/story?id=98691944>. /ABC News/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231023230953/https://
    abcnews.go.com/Politics/robert-kennedy-jr-launches-long-shot-
    presidential-bid/story?id=98691944> from the original on October 23,
    2023. Retrieved October 24, 2023.
146. *^ <#cite_ref-147>* Multiple sources:
      * Oshin, Olafimihan (January 23, 2022). "Auschwitz Memorial says
        RFK Jr. speech at anti-vaccine rally exploits Holocaust tragedy"
        <https://web.archive.org/web/20220124023519/https://thehill.com/
        homenews/state-watch/590995-auschwitz-memorial-says-rfk-jr-
        speech-at-anti-vaccine-rally-exploits>. /The Hill/. Archived
        from the original <https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/
        590995-auschwitz-memorial-says-rfk-jr-speech-at-anti-vaccine-
        rally-exploits> on January 24, 2022. Retrieved January 27, 2022.
        "During a speech at the rally, Kennedy, a conspiracy theorist
        and prominent anti-vaxxer, warned of a massive surveillance
        network being created with satellites in space and 5G mobile
        networks collecting data."
      * "Cheryl Hines Blasts Husband RFK Jr. for Holocaust Remark"
        <https://web.archive.org/web/20220125193828/https://
        www.thewrap.com/cheryl-hines-rfk-jr-husband-holocaust-
        comparison/>. /The Wrap/. January 25, 2022. Archived from the
        original <https://www.thewrap.com/cheryl-hines-rfk-jr-husband-
        holocaust-comparison/> on January 25, 2022. Retrieved January
        27, 2022. "Cheryl Hines has publicly condemned a statement made
        by her husband Robert F. Kennedy Jr. at a rally on Sunday, in
        which the environmental lawyer and conspiracy theorist likened
        COVID regulations to the Holocaust."
      * "Guests urged to be vaccinated at anti-vaxxer Robert F Kennedy
        Jr's party" <https://web.archive.org/web/20211218183905/https://
        www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/dec/18/robert-f-kennedy-jr-
        cheryl-hines-party-vaccinated-guests>. /The Guardian/. December
        18, 2021. Archived from the original <https://
        www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/dec/18/robert-f-kennedy-jr-
        cheryl-hines-party-vaccinated-guests> on December 18, 2021.
        Retrieved January 27, 2022. "The younger Kennedy has campaigned
        on environmental issues but is also a leading vaccines
        conspiracy theorist and activist against shots including those
        approved to combat Covid-19, which has killed more than 805,000
        in the US and more than 5.3 million worldwide."
      * Dorn, Sara. "RFK Jr. Makes Unfounded Claims About Mass
        Shootings, Covid-19: Here Are All The Conspiracies He Promotes"
        <https://archive.today/20230622172724/https://www.forbes.com/
        sites/saradorn/2023/06/06/rfk-jr-makes-unfounded-claims-about-
        mass-shootings-covid-19-here-are-all-the-conspiracies-he-
        promotes/?sh=6ed5ac303acc>. /Forbes/. Archived from the original
        <https://www.forbes.com/sites/saradorn/2023/06/06/rfk-jr-makes-
        unfounded-claims-about-mass-shootings-covid-19-here-are-all-the-
        conspiracies-he-promotes/> on June 22, 2023. Retrieved June 22,
        2023.
      * "Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s Conspiracy Theories Go Beyond Vaccines"
        <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/06/us/politics/rfk-conspiracy-
        theories-fact-check.html>. /The New York Times/. July 6, 2023.
        Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231011233651/https://
        www.nytimes.com/2023/07/06/us/politics/rfk-conspiracy-theories-
        fact-check.html> from the original on October 11, 2023.
        Retrieved October 12, 2023. "Robert F. Kennedy Jr., an
        environmental lawyer, is a leading vaccine skeptic and purveyor
        of conspiracy theories who has leaned heavily on misinformation
        as he mounts his long-shot 2024 campaign for the Democratic
        nomination."
147. *^ <#cite_ref-148>* Rebecca Klar, Emily Brooks (July 20, 2023). "RFK
    Jr. hearing puts censorship, misinformation fights at center stage"
    <https://thehill.com/policy/technology/4108865-rfk-jr-hearing-puts-
    censorship-misinformation-fights-at-center-stage/>. /The Hill/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230720211554/https://
    thehill.com/policy/technology/4108865-rfk-jr-hearing-puts-
    censorship-misinformation-fights-at-center-stage/> from the original
    on July 20, 2023. Retrieved September 1, 2023.
148. *^ <#cite_ref-149>* Davis O'Brien, Rebecca (October 9, 2023).
    "Robert F. Kennedy Jr. to Run for President as Independent, Leaving
    Democratic Primary" <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/09/us/politics/
    robert-f-kennedy-jr-independent.html>. /The New York Times/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231009165734/https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/10/09/us/politics/robert-f-kennedy-jr-
    independent.html> from the original on October 9, 2023. Retrieved
    October 9, 2023.
149. *^ <#cite_ref-150>* Otterbein, Holly; Schneider, Elena (October 26,
    2023). "Rep. Dean Phillips files paperwork for presidential bid
    against Biden" <https://www.politico.com/news/2023/10/26/rep-dean-
    phillips-files-paperwork-for-presidential-bid-against-
    biden-00123923>. /Politico <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Politico>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231027040351/
    https://www.politico.com/news/2023/10/26/rep-dean-phillips-files-
    paperwork-for-presidential-bid-against-biden-00123923> from the
    original on October 27, 2023. Retrieved October 26, 2023.
150. *^ <#cite_ref-151>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/792/202304259581293792/202304259581293792.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. April 25, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230425104913/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    792/202304259581293792/202304259581293792.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on April 25, 2023. Retrieved April 25, 2023.
151. *^ <#cite_ref-152>* Weissert, Will (January 23, 2024). "Biden wins
    New Hampshire primary through a write-in effort after declining to
    campaign there" <https://apnews.com/article/joe-biden-new-hampshire-
    democrats-writein-campaign-597a1208e5a8696a3f6b794a91b9fb00>. /AP
    News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AP_News>/. Retrieved January 23,
    2024.
152. *^ <#cite_ref-154>* Frazier, Kierra (September 13, 2023).
    "Columnists call for Biden to drop Harris, pick new running mate"
    <https://www.politico.com/news/2023/09/13/columnists-biden-harris-
    new-running-mate-00115559>. /POLITICO/. Retrieved January 24, 2024.
153. *^ <#cite_ref-BidenRunningRematch_155-0>* Gittleson, Ben; Nagle,
    Molly (April 25, 2023). "Joe Biden announces he is running for
    president again, setting up possible Trump rematch" <https://
    abcnews.go.com/Politics/joe-biden-running-reelection-2024-setting-
    trump-rematch/story?id=98801535>. /ABC News <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ABC_News>/. Retrieved April 25, 2023.
154. *^ <#cite_ref-156>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/P40016131/1733727>. /
    docquery.fec.gov/. October 26, 2023. Retrieved October 26, 2023.
155. *^ <#cite_ref-157>* Lebowitz, Megan (October 26, 2023). "Democratic
    Rep. Dean Phillips launches a White House bid, challenging Biden"
    <https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-election/democratic-rep-dean-
    phillips-launches-white-house-bid-challenging-bide-rcna122202>. /NBC
    News/. Retrieved October 27, 2023.
156. *^ <#cite_ref-158>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/446/202303029578797446/202303029578797446.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. March 2, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230304194605/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    446/202303029578797446/202303029578797446.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on March 4, 2023. Retrieved March 4, 2023.
157. *^ <#cite_ref-williamson_159-0>* Weissert, Will (March 4, 2023).
    "Marianne Williamson opens long shot 2024 challenge to Biden"
    <https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/california/story/
    2023-03-04/marianne-williamson-opens-long-shot-2024-challenge-to-
    biden>. /San Diego Union-Tribune <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    San_Diego_Union-Tribune>/. Associated Press <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230305080957/https://
    www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/california/story/2023-03-04/
    marianne-williamson-opens-long-shot-2024-challenge-to-biden> from
    the original on March 5, 2023. Retrieved March 4, 2023.
158. *^ <#cite_ref-160>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/672/202304059579709672/202304059579709672.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. April 5, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230407072442/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    672/202304059579709672/202304059579709672.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on April 7, 2023. Retrieved April 5, 2023.
159. *^ <#cite_ref-161>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/515/202304069579725515/202304069579725515.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. April 6, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230425001042/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    515/202304069579725515/202304069579725515.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on April 25, 2023. Retrieved May 12, 2023.
160. *^ <#cite_ref-163>* Kelly Garrity (April 5, 2023). "Robert F.
    Kennedy Jr. running for president in 2024" <https://
    www.politico.com/news/2023/04/05/robert-f-kennedy-jr-running-
    president-2024-00090706>. /Politico/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230405235155/https://www.politico.com/news/
    2023/04/05/robert-f-kennedy-jr-running-president-2024-00090706> from
    the original on April 5, 2023. Retrieved April 5, 2023.
161. *^ <#cite_ref-164>* Gibson, Brittany; Zhang, Andrew (October 9,
    2023). "RFK Jr. announces he will run as an independent candidate"
    <https://www.politico.com/news/2023/10/09/rfk-jr-announces-he-will-
    run-as-an-independent-candidate-00120604>. /Politico <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politico>/. Retrieved October 9, 2023.
162. *^ <#cite_ref-165>* Zeitz, Joshua (November 15, 2022). "4 Ex-
    Presidents Who Ran Again — And What They Mean for Trump" <https://
    www.politico.com/news/magazine/2022/11/15/why-they-ran-
    again-00066579>. /Politico/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230608190529/https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2022/11/15/
    why-they-ran-again-00066579> from the original on June 8, 2023.
    Retrieved June 18, 2023.
163. *^ <#cite_ref-166>* Orr, Gabby (November 15, 2022). "Former
    Republican President Donald Trump says he's launching another White
    House bid" <https://www.cnn.com/2022/11/15/politics/trump-2024-
    presidential-bid/index.html>. CNN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    CNN>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230115195034/https://
    www.cnn.com/2022/11/15/politics/trump-2024-presidential-bid/
    index.html> from the original on January 15, 2023. Retrieved
    November 15, 2022.
164. *^ <#cite_ref-167>* Jackson, David; Mansfield, Erin; Looker, Rachel
    (November 15, 2022). "Donald Trump files federal paperwork for 2024
    presidential run as GOP debates party future: live updates"
    <https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2022/11/16/donald-
    trump-president-candidacy-2024-live-updates/10297004002/>. /USA
    Today <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USA_Today>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20221116000312/https://www.usatoday.com/story/
    news/politics/2022/11/16/donald-trump-president-candidacy-2024-live-
    updates/10297004002/> from the original on November 16, 2022.
    Retrieved November 15, 2022.
165. *^ <#cite_ref-:5a_168-0>* Bravender, Robin (November 10, 2021). "A
    top campaign strategist for Ted Cruz and Glenn Youngkin says 'if
    Trump runs, Trump will be the nominee' in 2024" <https://
    www.businessinsider.com/donald-trump-republican-nominee-2024-biden-
    kamala-harris-jeff-roe-2021-11>. /Business Insider <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_Insider>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20220109061340/https://www.businessinsider.com/
    donald-trump-republican-nominee-2024-biden-kamala-harris-jeff-
    roe-2021-11> from the original on January 9, 2022. Retrieved January
    9, 2022. "Immediately after Youngkin's upset win last week,
    political pundits started chattering about whether the Virginia
    governor-elect was on a fast track to the White House."
166. *^ <#cite_ref-169>* Hagen, Lisa (March 16, 2022). "Trump Appears to
    Rule Out Pence as Running Mate in Potential 2024 Run" <https://
    www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2022-03-16/trump-appears-to-
    rule-out-pence-as-running-mate-in-potential-2024-run>. /US News &
    World Report/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230616124509/
    https://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2022-03-16/trump-
    appears-to-rule-out-pence-as-running-mate-in-potential-2024-run>
    from the original on June 16, 2023. Retrieved June 16, 2023.
167. *^ <#cite_ref-170>* Mangan, Dan (April 4, 2023). "NY grand jury
    indicts Trump in hush money payment case" <https://www.cnbc.com/
    2023/03/30/donald-trump-indicted-in-hush-money-payment-case.html>. /
    CNBC/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230330232724/https://
    www.cnbc.com/2023/03/30/donald-trump-indicted-in-hush-money-payment-
    case.html> from the original on March 30, 2023. Retrieved March 30,
    2023.
168. *^ <#cite_ref-171>* Sangal, Aditi; Hayes, Mike; Powell, Tori B.;
    Chowdhury, Maureen; Hammond, Elise; Vogt, Adrienne (June 13, 2023).
    "June 13, 2023 Trump pleads not guilty in historic federal
    indictment" <https://www.cnn.com/politics/live-news/donald-trump-
    indictment-court-appearance-06-13-23/index.html>. CNN. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230614123344/https://www.cnn.com/
    politics/live-news/donald-trump-indictment-court-
    appearance-06-13-23/index.html> from the original on June 14, 2023.
    Retrieved June 14, 2023.
169. *^ <#cite_ref-172>* Zitner, Aaron; Leary, Alex (June 10, 2023).
    "Trump Faces 2024 Split Screen of Campaign and Criminal Trials"
    <https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-faces-2024-split-screen-of-
    campaign-and-criminal-trials-d8d49536>. /The Wall Street Journal/.
    ISSN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0099-9660
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0099-9660>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230610040235/https://www.wsj.com/articles/
    trump-faces-2024-split-screen-of-campaign-and-criminal-trials-
    d8d49536> from the original on June 10, 2023. Retrieved July 14, 2023.
170. *^ <#cite_ref-173>* "Donald Trump banned from Colorado ballot in
    historic ruling by state's Supreme Court" <https://apnews.com/
    article/trump-insurrection-14th-amendment-2024-colorado-
    d16dd8f354eeaf450558378c65fd79a2>. /Associated Press <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>/. December 19, 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231219234612/https://
    apnews.com/article/trump-insurrection-14th-amendment-2024-colorado-
    d16dd8f354eeaf450558378c65fd79a2> from the original on December 19,
    2023. Retrieved December 20, 2023.
171. *^ <#cite_ref-174>* Howe, Amy (January 5, 2024). "Supreme Court
    agrees to hear Trump plea to remain on Colorado ballot" <https://
    www.scotusblog.com/2024/01/supreme-court-agrees-to-hear-trump-plea-
    to-remain-on-colorado-ballot/>. /SCOTUSblog/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240108175105/https://www.scotusblog.com/
    2024/01/supreme-court-agrees-to-hear-trump-plea-to-remain-on-
    colorado-ballot/> from the original on January 8, 2024. Retrieved
    January 8, 2024.
172. *^ <#cite_ref-175>* Montellaro, Zach (December 28, 2023). "Maine
    strips Trump from the ballot, inflaming legal war over his
    candidacy" <https://www.politico.com/news/2023/12/28/maine-kicks-
    trump-off-ballot-under-14th-amendment-00133294>. /Politico/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231229014234/https://
    www.politico.com/news/2023/12/28/maine-kicks-trump-off-ballot-
    under-14th-amendment-00133294> from the original on December 29,
    2023. Retrieved December 29, 2023.
173. *^ <#cite_ref-176>* Schonfeld, Zach (January 17, 2024). "Maine judge
    defers decision on Trump 14th Amendment question until Supreme Court
    rules" <https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/4414169-maine-
    judge-trump-14th-amendment-primary-ballot-supreme-court/>. /The Hill
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20240117212656/https://thehill.com/
    regulation/court-battles/4414169-maine-judge-trump-14th-amendment-
    primary-ballot-supreme-court/> from the original on January 17,
    2024. Retrieved January 18, 2024.
174. *^ <#cite_ref-177>* Margaritoff, Marco (July 16, 2022). "Trump
    Fundraising Slows For First Time In 18 Months, Trails DeSantis"
    <https://www.huffpost.com/entry/donald-trump-fundraising-
    slows_n_62d2be11e4b0f69130305225>. /HuffPost <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HuffPost>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20220720105743/https://www.huffpost.com/entry/donald-trump-
    fundraising-slows_n_62d2be11e4b0f69130305225> from the original on
    July 20, 2022. Retrieved July 18, 2022.
175. *^ <#cite_ref-178>* Pengelly, Martin (December 15, 2022). "Trump 'is
    in trouble', says insider after DeSantis surges in 2024 polls"
    <https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/dec/14/desantis-
    trump-2024-republican-presidential-poll>. /The Guardian <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Guardian>/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230119185124/https://www.theguardian.com/us-
    news/2022/dec/14/desantis-trump-2024-republican-presidential-poll>
    from the original on January 19, 2023. Retrieved January 22, 2023.
176. *^ <#cite_ref-179>* Fineout, Gary (December 15, 2022). "DeSantis
    builds his conservative resume as Trump flounders" <https://
    www.politico.com/news/2022/12/15/desantis-trump-gop-same-sex-
    marriage-covid-00074027>. /Politico <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Politico>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230122151256/
    https://www.politico.com/news/2022/12/15/desantis-trump-gop-same-
    sex-marriage-covid-00074027> from the original on January 22, 2023.
    Retrieved January 22, 2023.
177. *^ <#cite_ref-180>* Peoples, Steve; Gomez Licon, Adriana; Izaguirre,
    Anthony (May 24, 2023). "DeSantis launches GOP presidential campaign
    in Twitter announcement plagued by glitches" <https://apnews.com/
    article/ron-desantis-2024-presidential-election-live-
    updates-0495d567326db1e760179d01f1f7c45e>. Associated Press
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230524042404/https://apnews.com/article/ron-
    desantis-2024-presidential-election-live-
    updates-0495d567326db1e760179d01f1f7c45e> from the original on May
    24, 2023. Retrieved November 10, 2023.
178. *^ <#cite_ref-181>* Pengelly, Martin (May 30, 2023). "Ron DeSantis
    says he will 'destroy leftism' in US if elected president" <https://
    www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/may/30/ron-desantis-fox-news-
    interview-destroy-leftism>. /The Guardian/. ISSN <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0261-3077 <https://
    www.worldcat.org/issn/0261-3077>. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230530154015/https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/may/30/
    ron-desantis-fox-news-interview-destroy-leftism> from the original
    on May 30, 2023. Retrieved May 30, 2023.
179. *^ <#cite_ref-182>* Morris, G. Elliott (June 28, 2023). "Who's ahead
    in the national polls?" <https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/polls/
    president-primary-r/2024/national/>. FiveThirtyEight. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230727015337/https://
    projects.fivethirtyeight.com/polls/president-primary-r/2024/
    national/> from the original on July 27, 2023. Retrieved July 30, 2023.
180. *^ <#cite_ref-183>* Kashinsky, Lisa (November 10, 2023). "Chris
    Sununu: Vivek Ramaswamy 'would be a poor choice' for president"
    <https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/10/chris-sununu-vivek-
    ramaswamy-00126533>. /Politico <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Politico>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231110125408/
    https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/10/chris-sununu-vivek-
    ramaswamy-00126533> from the original on November 10, 2023.
    Retrieved November 10, 2023.
181. *^ <#cite_ref-185>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/249/202211159546802249/202211159546802249.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. November 15, 2022. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20221120201354/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    249/202211159546802249/202211159546802249.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on November 20, 2022. Retrieved December 6, 2022.
182. *^ <#cite_ref-186>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/377/202212089550119377/202212089550119377.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. December 8, 2022. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230214172528/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    377/202212089550119377/202212089550119377.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on February 14, 2023. Retrieved February 14, 2023.
183. *^ <#cite_ref-187>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/958/202312119599436958/202312119599436958.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. December 11, 2023. Retrieved January 12,
    2023.
184. *^ <#cite_ref-188>* Singman, Brooke (November 15, 2022). "Donald
    Trump announces 2024 re-election run for president" <https://
    www.foxnews.com/politics/donald-trump-announces-2024-re-election-
    run-president>. /Fox News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fox_News>/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20221116022451/https://
    www.foxnews.com/politics/donald-trump-announces-2024-re-election-
    run-president> from the original on November 16, 2022. Retrieved
    November 15, 2022.
185. *^ <#cite_ref-189>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/646/202302149578308646/202302149578308646.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. February 14, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230216100835/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    646/202302149578308646/202302149578308646.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on February 16, 2023. Retrieved February 16, 2023.
186. *^ <#cite_ref-190>* Burlij, Terence; Sullivan, Kate (February 14,
    2023). "Nikki Haley announces 2024 White House bid" <https://
    www.cnn.com/2023/02/14/politics/nikki-haley-2024-announcement/
    index.html>. /CNN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNN>/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230214193230/https://www.cnn.com/
    2023/02/14/politics/nikki-haley-2024-announcement/index.html> from
    the original on February 14, 2023. Retrieved February 14, 2023.
187. *^ <#cite_ref-191>* "Form 1 for RON DESANTIS FOR PRESIDENT"
    <https://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/C00841130/1705819>. /
    docquery.fec.gov/. May 24, 2023. Retrieved May 24, 2023.
188. *^ <#cite_ref-192>* "Form 1 for RON DESANTIS FOR PRESIDENT"
    <https://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/C00841130/1706274/>. /
    docquery.fec.gov/. June 1, 2023. Retrieved September 10, 2023.
189. *^ <#cite_ref-193>* "Form 1 for RON DESANTIS FOR PRESIDENT"
    <https://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/C00841130/1707000/>. /
    docquery.fec.gov/. June 12, 2023. Retrieved September 10, 2023.
190. *^ <#cite_ref-194>* "Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis launches 2024
    presidential campaign to challenge Trump" <https://apnews.com/
    article/ron-desantis-2024-presidential-election-live-
    updates-0495d567326db1e760179d01f1f7c45e>. /Associated Press
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>/. May 24, 2023.
    Retrieved May 24, 2023.
191. *^ <#cite_ref-195>* Nehamas, Nicholas; Haberman, Maggie <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maggie_Haberman>; Swan, Jonathan <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonathan_Swan> (January 21, 2024). "Ron
    DeSantis Is Expected to Drop Out of the Presidential Race" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2024/01/21/us/politics/desantis-drops-out.html>. /
    The New York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_New_York_Times>/. Retrieved January 21, 2024.
192. *^ <#cite_ref-Statement_of_Candidacy_196-0>* "Statement of
    Candidacy" <https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    550/202304069579725550/202304069579725550.pdf> (PDF). /
    docquery.fec.gov/. April 6, 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230408215830/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    550/202304069579725550/202304069579725550.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on April 8, 2023. Retrieved April 8, 2023.
193. *^ <#cite_ref-197>* Julia Manchester (April 26, 2023). "Asa
    Hutchinson formally launches 2024 presidential campaign" <https://
    thehill.com/homenews/campaign/3961358-asa-hutchinson-formally-
    launches-2024-presidential-campaign/>. /The Hill/.
194. *^ <#cite_ref-hutchinson_suspends_198-0>* Huynh, Anjali (January 16,
    2024). "Asa Hutchinson Suspends Republican Presidential Bid"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/16/us/politics/asa-hutchinson-2024-
    campaign.html>. /The New York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_New_York_Times>/. Retrieved January 16, 2024.
195. *^ <#cite_ref-199>* Lauren Irwin (January 20, 2024). "Hutchinson
    throws support behind Haley days before New Hampshire primary"
    <https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4419880-hutchinson-throws-
    support-behind-haley-days-before-new-hampshire-primary/>. /The Hill
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Retrieved
    January 20, 2024.
196. *^ <#cite_ref-200>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/467/202302219578712467/202302219578712467.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. February 21, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230307211213/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    467/202302219578712467/202302219578712467.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on March 7, 2023. Retrieved March 4, 2023.
197. *^ <#cite_ref-201>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/971/202306089581775971/202306089581775971.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. June 8, 2023. Retrieved September 10, 2023.
198. *^ <#cite_ref-202>* "Ramaswamy for President? Readers Respond"
    <https://www.wsj.com/articles/vivek-ramaswamy-for-president-
    republican-2024-ad9976c5>. /The Wall Street Journal/. February 27,
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230228003132/https://
    www.wsj.com/articles/vivek-ramaswamy-for-president-republican-2024-
    ad9976c5> from the original on February 28, 2023. Retrieved February
    28, 2023.
199. *^ <#cite_ref-aligned_203-0>* Weisman, Jonathan (January 15, 2024).
    "Vivek Ramaswamy, Wealthy Political Novice Who Aligned With Trump,
    Quits Campaign" <https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/15/us/politics/
    vivek-ramaswamy-drops-out.html>. /The New York Times <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/. Retrieved January 15, 2024.
200. *^ <#cite_ref-204>* Jeff Benjamin (May 4, 2023). "Chief investment
    officer Matt Cole takes on the added role of CEO at the disruptive
    new asset management shop after Vivek Ramaswamy's departure"
    <https://www.investmentnews.com/strive-asset-management-fills-
    leadership-vacuum-created-by-ceos-run-for-president-237188>. /
    Investment News/. Retrieved November 12, 2023.
201. *^ <#cite_ref-205>* Weisman, Jonathan (January 15, 2024). "Vivek
    Ramaswamy Drops Out of 2024 Presidential Race" <https://
    www.nytimes.com/2024/01/15/us/politics/vivek-ramaswamy-drops-
    out.html>. /The New York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_New_York_Times>/. Retrieved January 15, 2024. "Vivek Ramaswamy,
    the 38-year-old entrepreneur and political newcomer who briefly made
    a splash with brash policy proposals and an outsize sense of
    confidence, dropped out of the race for the Republican White House
    nomination after a disappointing fourth-place finish in the Iowa
    caucuses. He endorsed former President Donald J. Trump for the White
    House."
202. *^ <#cite_ref-206>* "Federal Election Commission" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/C00842237/1706575>. Retrieved June 6,
    2023.
203. *^ <#cite_ref-207>* "Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a top
    GOP Trump critic, files paperwork to launch 2024 presidential
    campaign" <https://www.cnbc.com/2023/06/06/chris-christie-top-gop-
    trump-critic-launches-presidential-bid.html>. /CNBC <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNBC>/. June 6, 2023. Retrieved June 6, 2023.
204. *^ <#cite_ref-208>* Barnett, Emma; Haake, Garrett; Schwartz, Brian
    (January 10, 2024). "Chris Christie drops out of the 2024
    presidential race" <https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-election/
    chris-christie-drops-2024-presidential-race-rcna127993>. /NBC News
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NBC_News>/. Retrieved January 10, 2024.
205. *^ <#cite_ref-209>* "Form 1 for Doug Burgum for America, Inc"
    <https://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/C00842302/1706620>. /
    docquery.fec.gov/. Retrieved June 7, 2023.
206. *^ <#cite_ref-210>* Burgum, Doug (June 6, 2023). "Doug Burgum: Why
    I'm Running for President in 2024" <https://www.wsj.com/articles/
    north-dakota-to-the-white-house-economy-energy-presidential-
    announcement-election-2024-candidate-552a70a0>. /The Wall Street
    Journal/.
207. *^ <#cite_ref-211>* Weisman, Jonathan (December 4, 2023). "Doug
    Burgum, Wealthy North Dakota Governor, Ends White House Run"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/04/us/politics/doug-burgum-2024-
    campaign.html>. /The New York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_New_York_Times>/. Retrieved December 4, 2023.
208. *^ <#cite_ref-212>* Sforza, Lauren (January 14, 2024). "Burgum
    endorses Trump for president" <https://thehill.com/homenews/
    campaign/4408377-burgum-endorses-trump-for-president/>. /The Hill
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Retrieved
    January 14, 2024.
209. *^ <#cite_ref-213>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/862/202305199581555862/202305199581555862.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. May 19, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230519220937/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    862/202305199581555862/202305199581555862.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on May 19, 2023. Retrieved May 19, 2023.
210. *^ <#cite_ref-214>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/679/202306129582141679/202306129582141679.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. June 12, 2023. Retrieved September 10, 2023.
211. *^ <#cite_ref-215>* Allison, Natalie (May 19, 2023). "Tim Scott
    files paperwork to run for president" <https://www.politico.com/
    news/2023/05/19/tim-scott-2024-presidential-race-00097878>. /
    POLITICO/. Retrieved May 19, 2023.
212. *^ <#cite_ref-216>* Vakil, Caroline (November 12, 2023). "Tim Scott
    suspends 2024 GOP primary bid" <https://thehill.com/homenews/
    campaign/4290754-tim-scott-suspends-2024-gop-primary/>. /The Hill
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Retrieved
    November 13, 2023.
213. *^ <#cite_ref-217>* Holmes, Kristen; Atwood, Kylie; Zanona, Melanie;
    Sullivan, Kate (January 20, 2024). "Sen. Tim Scott endorses Trump in
    New Hampshire amid full-court press against Haley" <https://
    www.cnn.com/2024/01/19/politics/tim-scott-endorsement-trump/
    index.html>. /CNN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNN>/. Retrieved
    January 24, 2023.
214. *^ <#cite_ref-218>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/P40013435/1706462/>. /
    docquery.fec.gov/. June 5, 2023. Retrieved June 5, 2023.
215. *^ <#cite_ref-219>* Kevin Breuninger (June 5, 2023). "Mike Pence
    files paperwork to launch 2024 Republican presidential campaign"
    <https://www.cnbc.com/2023/06/05/mike-pence-launches-2024-
    presidential-campaign.html>. /CNBC/.
216. *^ <#cite_ref-220>* Stracqualursi, Veronica; Holmes, Kristen
    (October 28, 2023). "Pence suspends White House bid" <https://
    www.cnn.com/2023/10/28/politics/pence-suspends-campaign-for-
    president/index.html>. /CNN <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNN>/.
    Retrieved October 28, 2023.
217. *^ <#cite_ref-221>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/473/202305019581366473/202305019581366473.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. May 1, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230513015837/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    473/202305019581366473/202305019581366473.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on May 13, 2023. Retrieved May 13, 2023.
218. *^ <#cite_ref-222>* Kelly Garrity (April 20, 2023). "Larry Elder
    enters 2024 presidential race" <https://www.politico.com/news/
    2023/04/20/larry-elder-2024-race-00093218>. /Politico <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politico>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230421173004/https://www.politico.com/news/2023/04/20/larry-
    elder-2024-race-00093218> from the original on April 21, 2023.
    Retrieved April 22, 2023.
219. *^ <#cite_ref-HillOct26_223-0>* Julia Mueller (October 26, 2023).
    "Larry Elder drops out of 2024 GOP primary, backs Trump" <https://
    thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4248455-larry-elder-2024-gop-primary-
    donald-trump/>. /The Hill <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Retrieved October 26, 2023.
220. *^ <#cite_ref-224>* "Statement ofCandidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/696/202302099578205696/202302099578205696.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. Retrieved April 18, 2023.
221. *^ <#cite_ref-apmarch3_225-0>* "Businessman Perry Johnson announces
    2024 presidential bid" <https://apnews.com/article/perry-
    johnson-2024-presidential-campaign-
    b734b469aa0b56a94e19ef0125cf5997>. /Associated Press <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associated_Press>/. March 3, 2023. Retrieved
    June 17, 2023.
222. *^ <#cite_ref-226>* Tabet, Alex (October 20, 2023). "Perry Johnson
    drops out of 2024 presidential race" <https://www.nbcnews.com/meet-
    the-press/meetthepressblog/perry-johnson-drops-2024-presidential-
    race-rcna121476>. /NBC News <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    NBC_News>/. Retrieved October 20, 2023.
223. *^ <#cite_ref-227>* Timotija, Filip (October 23, 2023). "Former GOP
    presidential candidate Perry Johnson endorses Trump" <https://
    thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4271100-ex-gop-presidential-candidate-
    perry-johnson-endorses-trump/>. /The Hill <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/The_Hill_(newspaper)>/. Retrieved October 23, 2023.
224. *^ <#cite_ref-228>* "Form 1 for Hurd for America, Inc" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/C00843540/1708715/>. /
    docquery.fec.gov/. Retrieved June 22, 2023.
225. *^ <#cite_ref-229>* Will Weisser (June 22, 2023). "Former Texas
    congressman Will Hurd, a Trump critic, announces 2024 Republican
    presidential campaign" <https://apnews.com/article/will-hurd-2024-
    republican-presidential-primary-710f6f0d4bb6cc1f5046e20ed17ef602>. /
    Associated Press/.
226. *^ <#cite_ref-hurd_haley_230-0>* Vakil, Caroline (October 9, 2023).
    "Hurd drops out of 2024 GOP race, endorses Haley" <https://
    thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4246570-hurd-drops-out-of-2024-gop-
    race-endorses-haley/>. /The Hill/. Retrieved October 9, 2023.
227. *^ <#cite_ref-231>* "Federal Election Commission" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/P40013765/1707313>. Retrieved June
    14, 2023.
228. *^ <#cite_ref-233>* Astor, Maggie; Mazzei, Patricia (June 14, 2023).
    "Francis Suarez, Miami Mayor, Files for a Republican Presidential
    Run" <https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/14/us/politics/francis-
    suarez-2024-election-republican.html>. /The New York Times/. ISSN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISSN_(identifier)> 0362-4331
    <https://www.worldcat.org/issn/0362-4331>. Retrieved June 14, 2023.
229. *^ <#cite_ref-234>* Breuninger, Kevin (August 29, 2023). "Miami
    Mayor Francis Suarez suspends presidential campaign after failing to
    qualify for debates" <https://www.cnbc.com/2023/08/29/miami-mayor-
    francis-suarez-suspends-presidential-campaign.html>. /CNBC <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNBC>/. Retrieved August 29, 2023.
230. *^ <#cite_ref-235>* "2024 Presidential Race Stays Static In The Face
    Of Major Events, Quinnipiac University National Poll Finds; RFK Jr.
    Receives 22% As Independent Candidate In 3-Way Race" <https://
    poll.qu.edu/poll-release?releaseid=3881>. /Quinnipiac University
    Polling Institute <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Quinnipiac_University_Polling_Institute>/. November 1, 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231102000857/https://
    poll.qu.edu/poll-release?releaseid=3881> from the original on
    November 2, 2023. Retrieved November 2, 2023.
231. *^ <#cite_ref-:5_236-0>* "In 3-Way Race, Independent Robert Kennedy
    Jr. Garners 24% Across 6 Battleground States; Trump 35%, Biden 33%,
    Kennedy 24%; RFK Noses Ahead Among Voters Under 45" <https://
    scri.siena.edu/2023/11/07/in-3-way-race-independent-robert-kennedy-
    jr-garners-24-across-6-battleground-states-trump-35-biden-33-
    kennedy-24-rfk-noses-ahead-among-voters-under-45/>. /Siena College
    Research Institute <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Siena_College_Research_Institute>/. November 7, 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231113232057/https://scri.siena.edu/
    2023/11/07/in-3-way-race-independent-robert-kennedy-jr-garners-24-
    across-6-battleground-states-trump-35-biden-33-kennedy-24-rfk-noses-
    ahead-among-voters-under-45/> from the original on November 13,
    2023. Retrieved November 12, 2023.
232. *^ <#cite_ref-237>* "RFK Jr. defends stance on vaccines and JFK
    conspiracy on Joe Rogan podcast" <https://
    www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/rfk-jr-vaccines-jfk-conspiracy-joe-
    rogan-podcast>. /Washington Examiner/. June 15, 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231105223842/https://
    www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/rfk-jr-vaccines-jfk-conspiracy-joe-
    rogan-podcast> from the original on November 5, 2023. Retrieved
    November 5, 2023.
233. *^ <#cite_ref-238>* Kurtzleben, Danielle (November 2, 2023).
    "Democrats sound alarms over No Labels third-party bid" <https://
    www.npr.org/2023/11/02/1210211164/no-labels-democrats-republicans-
    third-party-2024-election-trump-biden-pelosi>. /NPR <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NPR>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231104121910/https://www.npr.org/2023/11/02/1210211164/no-labels-
    democrats-republicans-third-party-2024-election-trump-biden-pelosi>
    from the original on November 4, 2023. Retrieved November 5, 2023.
234. *^ <#cite_ref-239>* "FEC Form 2 for Report FEC-1707205" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/P40013724/1707205/>. /FEC.gov/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231013023959/https://
    docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/forms/P40013724/1707205/> from the original
    on October 13, 2023. Retrieved October 10, 2023.
235. *^ <#cite_ref-240>* "Peter Sonski is the American Solidarity Party
    2024 Presidential nominee" <https://ballot-access.org/2023/06/03/
    peter-sonski-is-the-american-solidarity-party-2024-presidential-
    nominee/>. /Ballot Access News/. June 3, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230603135219/https://ballot-access.org/
    2023/06/03/peter-sonski-is-the-american-solidarity-party-2024-
    presidential-nominee/> from the original on June 3, 2023. Retrieved
    June 3, 2023.
236. *^ <#cite_ref-241>* "Prohibition Party Chooses National 2024 Ticket
    | Ballot Access News" <https://ballot-access.org/2023/05/10/
    prohibition-party-chooses-national-2024-ticket/>. Ballot Access
    News. May 10, 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231129193022/https://ballot-access.org/2023/05/10/prohibition-
    party-chooses-national-2024-ticket/> from the original on November
    29, 2023. Retrieved November 13, 2023.
237. *^ <#cite_ref-242>* "Party for Socialism and Liberation Announces
    2024 Presidential Ticket" <https://independentpoliticalreport.com/
    2023/09/party-for-socialism-and-liberation-announces-2024-
    presidential-ticket/>. /Independent Political Report/. September 11,
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230913021711/https://
    independentpoliticalreport.com/2023/09/party-for-socialism-and-
    liberation-announces-2024-presidential-ticket> from the original on
    September 13, 2023. Retrieved September 27, 2023.
238. *^ <#cite_ref-243>* "2024 Candidate Filings" <https://vote.utah.gov/
    2024-candidate-filings/>. Retrieved January 14, 2024.
239. *^ <#cite_ref-244>* "Socialist Party USA Nominates Presidential
    Ticket | Ballot Access News" <https://ballot-access.org/2023/10/23/
    socialist-party-usa-nominates-presidential-ticket/>. October 23,
    2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231120013849/https://
    ballot-access.org/2023/10/23/socialist-party-usa-nominates-
    presidential-ticket/> from the original on November 20, 2023.
    Retrieved November 20, 2023.
240. *^ <#cite_ref-:13_245-0>* "Socialist Party USA Announces 2024
    Presidential Ticket and New Leadership" <https://
    independentpoliticalreport.com/2023/10/socialist-party-usa-
    announces-2024-presidential-ticket-and-new-party-leadership/>. /
    Independent Political Report/. October 23, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231120013849/https://
    independentpoliticalreport.com/2023/10/socialist-party-usa-
    announces-2024-presidential-ticket-and-new-party-leadership/> from
    the original on November 20, 2023. Retrieved November 20, 2023.
241. *^ <#cite_ref-246>* scientificinquirer (October 10, 2023).
    "Conversations with Tom Ross: The Transhumanist Party's 2024
    Presidential Candidate" <https://scientificinquirer.com/2023/10/10/
    conversations-with-tom-ross-the-transhumanist-partys-2024-
    presidential-candidate/>. /Scientific Inquirer/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231120110507/https://scientificinquirer.com/
    2023/10/10/conversations-with-tom-ross-the-transhumanist-
    partys-2024-presidential-candidate/> from the original on November
    20, 2023. Retrieved November 21, 2023.
242. *^ <#cite_ref-247>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/672/202304059579709672/202304059579709672.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. April 5, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230407072442/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    672/202304059579709672/202304059579709672.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on April 7, 2023. Retrieved April 5, 2023.
243. *^ <#cite_ref-248>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/515/202304069579725515/202304069579725515.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. April 6, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230425001042/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    515/202304069579725515/202304069579725515.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on April 25, 2023. Retrieved May 12, 2023.
244. *^ <#cite_ref-249>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/800/202310179598479800/202310179598479800.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. October 17, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231210085350/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    800/202310179598479800/202310179598479800.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on December 10, 2023. Retrieved December 10, 2023.
245. *^ <#cite_ref-250>* Kelly Garrity (April 5, 2023). "Robert F.
    Kennedy Jr. running for president in 2024" <https://
    www.politico.com/news/2023/04/05/robert-f-kennedy-jr-running-
    president-2024-00090706>. /Politico/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230405235155/https://www.politico.com/news/
    2023/04/05/robert-f-kennedy-jr-running-president-2024-00090706> from
    the original on April 5, 2023. Retrieved April 5, 2023.
246. *^ <#cite_ref-251>* Gibson, Brittany; Zhang, Andrew (October 9,
    2023). "RFK Jr. announces he will run as an independent candidate"
    <https://www.politico.com/news/2023/10/09/rfk-jr-announces-he-will-
    run-as-an-independent-candidate-00120604>. /Politico <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politico>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231019162350/https://www.politico.com/news/2023/10/09/rfk-jr-
    announces-he-will-run-as-an-independent-candidate-00120604> from the
    original on October 19, 2023. Retrieved October 9, 2023.
247. *^ <#cite_ref-252>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/158/202306130300443158/202306130300443158.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. June 5, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230614112248/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    158/202306130300443158/202306130300443158.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on June 14, 2023. Retrieved December 10, 2023.
248. *^ <#cite_ref-253>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/413/202306200300443413/202306200300443413.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. June 20, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230702152135/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    413/202306200300443413/202306200300443413.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on July 2, 2023. Retrieved December 10, 2023.
249. *^ <#cite_ref-254>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/pdf/882/202310059597406882/202310059597406882.pdf>
    (PDF). /docquery.fec.gov/. October 5, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231210085348/https://docquery.fec.gov/pdf/
    882/202310059597406882/202310059597406882.pdf> (PDF) from the
    original on December 10, 2023. Retrieved December 10, 2023.
250. *^ <#cite_ref-255>* Krieg, Gregory (October 5, 2023). "Cornel West
    drops Green Party bid and will run for president as an independent"
    <https://www.cnn.com/2023/10/05/politics/cornel-west-independent-
    president-green-party/index.html>. /CNN <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/CNN>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231027213747/
    https://www.cnn.com/2023/10/05/politics/cornel-west-independent-
    president-green-party/index.html> from the original on October 27,
    2023. Retrieved October 27, 2023.
251. *^ <#cite_ref-256>* "Indian American Scientist Shiva Ayyadurai joins
    2024 US presidential race" <https://www.businessinsider.in/
    international/news/indian-american-scientist-shiva-ayyadurai-
    joins-2024-us-presidential-race/articleshow/102338187.cms>. /
    Business Insider India <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Business_Insider_India>/. August 2, 2023. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230803005930/https://www.businessinsider.in/
    international/news/indian-american-scientist-shiva-ayyadurai-
    joins-2024-us-presidential-race/articleshow/102338187.cms> from the
    original on August 3, 2023. Retrieved November 4, 2023.
252. *^ <#cite_ref-257>* "Nikki Haley To Shiva Ayyadurai: The 4 Indian-
    Americans To Enter 2024 US Presidential Election Race" <https://
    www.india.com/us/nikki-haley-shiva-ayyadurai-vivek-ramaswamy-hirsh-
    vardhan-four-indian-americans-to-enter-2024-us-presidential-
    election-race-6203164/>. /India.com <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    India.com>/. August 3, 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231106050133/https://www.india.com/us/nikki-haley-shiva-ayyadurai-
    vivek-ramaswamy-hirsh-vardhan-four-indian-americans-to-enter-2024-
    us-presidential-election-race-6203164/> from the original on
    November 6, 2023. Retrieved November 4, 2023.
253. *^ <#cite_ref-259>* Curi, Peter (May 8, 2023). "Afroman hosting 2024
    presidential campaign show in Lombard" <https://wgntv.com/news/
    northwest-suburbs/afroman-hosting-2024-presidential-campaign-show-
    in-lombard/>. /wgntv.com/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230509105109/https://wgntv.com/news/northwest-suburbs/afroman-
    hosting-2024-presidential-campaign-show-in-lombard/> from the
    original on May 9, 2023. Retrieved June 5, 2023.
254. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-CATHVOTE_260-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-
    CATHVOTE_260-1> Lafrate, Anthony (August 6, 2023). "Who Are the 2024
    3rd-Party Candidates?" <https://catholicvote.org/who-are-
    the-2024-3rd-party-candidates/>. /catholicvote.org/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231115170811/https://
    catholicvote.org/who-are-the-2024-3rd-party-candidates/> from the
    original on November 15, 2023. Retrieved November 13, 2023.
255. *^ <#cite_ref-261>* Foley, Ryan (November 14, 2023). "14 lesser-
    known candidates running for president in 2024: Afroman" <https://
    www.christianpost.com/news/8-lesser-known-candidates-running-for-
    president-in-2024.html?page=8>. /Christian Post/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240117191213/https://www.christianpost.com/
    news/8-lesser-known-candidates-running-for-president-in-2024.html?
    page=8> from the original on January 17, 2024. Retrieved January 17,
    2024.
256. *^ <#cite_ref-262>* Afroman [@ogafroman] (December 18, 2023).
    "202Fro In Full Effecc💨🇺🇸 Tickets at http://ogafroman.com"
    <https://twitter.com/ogafroman/status/1736834777771286790> (Tweet).
    Retrieved January 8, 2024 – via Twitter <https://en.wikipedia.org/
    wiki/Twitter>.
257. *^ <#cite_ref-263>* Hall, Kennedy (May 19, 2023). "Taylor Marshall
    Running for President: What Does This Mean?" <https://
    www.crisismagazine.com/opinion/taylor-marshall-running-for-
    president-what-does-this-mean>. /Crisis Magazine/. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20230519130437/https://
    www.crisismagazine.com/opinion/taylor-marshall-running-for-
    president-what-does-this-mean> from the original on May 19, 2023.
    Retrieved May 19, 2023.
258. *^ <#cite_ref-264>* Michael Sean Winters (May 17, 2023). "Taylor
    Marshall for Prez in 2024! The Catholic candidate whose time has
    come" <https://www.ncronline.org/opinion/ncr-voices/taylor-marshall-
    prez-2024-catholic-candidate-whose-time-has-come>. /
    www.ncronline.org/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20230519165334/https://www.ncronline.org/opinion/ncr-voices/taylor-
    marshall-prez-2024-catholic-candidate-whose-time-has-come> from the
    original on May 19, 2023. Retrieved May 19, 2023.
259. *^ <#cite_ref-265>* Foley, Ryan (November 14, 2023). "14 lesser-
    known candidates running for president in 2024: Taylor Marshall"
    <https://www.christianpost.com/news/8-lesser-known-candidates-
    running-for-president-in-2024.html?page=5>. /Christian Post/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240117191216/https://
    www.christianpost.com/news/8-lesser-known-candidates-running-for-
    president-in-2024.html?page=5> from the original on January 17,
    2024. Retrieved January 17, 2024.
260. *^ <#cite_ref-266>* Barton, Tom (July 23, 2023). ""Who is Chase
    Oliver" Meet the Libertarian candidate running for president"
    <https://www.thegazette.com/campaigns-elections/who-is-chase-oliver-
    meet-the-libertarian-candidate-running-for-president>. The Gazette
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Gazette_(Cedar_Rapids,_Iowa)>.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230825220058/https://
    www.thegazette.com/campaigns-elections/who-is-chase-oliver-meet-the-
    libertarian-candidate-running-for-president/> from the original on
    August 25, 2023. Retrieved September 5, 2023.
261. *^ <#cite_ref-267>* "Statement of Candidacy" <https://
    docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/fecimg/?C00859850>. /docquery.fec.gov/.
    December 11, 2023. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20240118094820/https://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/fecimg/?C00859850>
    from the original on January 18, 2024. Retrieved January 17,
    2024.^[/non-primary source needed <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Wikipedia:No_original_research#Primary,_secondary_and_tertiary_sources>/]
262. *^ <#cite_ref-268>* Philips, Aleks (September 9, 2023).
    "Libertarians Sense Golden Opportunity to Make 2024 Breakthrough"
    <https://www.newsweek.com/libertarian-party-golden-opportunity-race-
    potential-2024-breakthrough-1825386>. /Newsweek <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newsweek>/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20230909085950/https://www.newsweek.com/libertarian-party-
    golden-opportunity-race-potential-2024-breakthrough-1825386> from
    the original on September 9, 2023. Retrieved September 9, 2023.
263. *^ <#cite_ref-269>* Astor, Maggie (November 9, 2023). "Jill Stein
    Announces Third-Party Bid For President" <https://www.nytimes.com/
    2023/11/09/us/politics/jill-stein-presidential-bid.html>. /The New
    York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231109203116/https://
    www.nytimes.com/2023/11/09/us/politics/jill-stein-presidential-
    bid.html> from the original on November 9, 2023. Retrieved November
    9, 2023.
264. *^ <#cite_ref-270>* Cruz, Abby; Gersony, Laura. "'People are hungry
    for more choices': Inside the Green Party's push for 2024" <https://
    abcnews.go.com/Politics/people-hungry-choices-inside-green-partys-
    push-2024/story?id=101103363>. /ABC News/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240114233713/https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/
    people-hungry-choices-inside-green-partys-push-2024/story?
    id=101103363> from the original on January 14, 2024. Retrieved
    January 14, 2024.
265. *^ <#cite_ref-271>* Howard, Andrew (December 5, 2023). "Liz Cheney
    says she's considering a third-party presidential bid" <https://
    www.politico.com/news/2023/12/05/liz-cheney-2024-third-
    party-00130100>. /Politico/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/
    20231205202956/https://www.politico.com/news/2023/12/05/liz-
    cheney-2024-third-party-00130100> from the original on December 5,
    2023. Retrieved December 6, 2023.
266. *^ <#cite_ref-272>* Shabad, Rebecca (November 15, 2023). "Sen. Joe
    Manchin says he 'absolutely' would consider a presidential run"
    <https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-election/sen-joe-manchin-
    says-absolutely-consider-presidential-run-rcna125368>. /NBC News/.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231116230739/https://
    www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-election/sen-joe-manchin-says-
    absolutely-consider-presidential-run-rcna125368> from the original
    on November 16, 2023. Retrieved November 17, 2023.
267. *^ <#cite_ref-273>* Sforza, Lauren (September 10, 2023). "GOP
    senator says he would 'speak' to No Labels about 2024 third-party
    run" <https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4196634-gop-senator-
    says-he-would-speak-to-no-labels-about-third-party-run/>. /The
    Hill/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20230911154109/https://
    thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4196634-gop-senator-says-he-would-
    speak-to-no-labels-about-third-party-run/> from the original on
    September 11, 2023. Retrieved September 10, 2023.
268. *^ <#cite_ref-275>* Todd, Chuck (October 18, 2023). "Chuck Todd: The
    search for a winner behind Door No. 3" <https://www.nbcnews.com/
    politics/elections/chuck-todd-search-winner-door-no-3-rcna120697>. /
    NBC News/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20240105143746/
    https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/elections/chuck-todd-search-winner-
    door-no-3-rcna120697> from the original on January 5, 2024.
    Retrieved January 6, 2024.
269. *^ <#cite_ref-276>* Dickinson, Tim (October 20, 2023). "Kanye is
    'Not a Candidate in 2024,' His Lawyer Says" <https://
    www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-features/kanye-presidential-
    run-2024-ending-1234858651/>. /Rolling Stone/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231020132130/https://www.rollingstone.com/
    politics/politics-features/kanye-presidential-run-2024-
    ending-1234858651/> from the original on October 20, 2023. Retrieved
    October 20, 2023.
270. *^ <#cite_ref-278>* "2022 Cook PVI: State Map and List" <https://
    www.cookpolitical.com/cook-pvi/2022-partisan-voting-index/state-map-
    and-list>. /Cook Political Report <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Cook_Political_Report>/. December 15, 2017. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20220713122448/https://www.cookpolitical.com/
    cook-pvi/2022-partisan-voting-index/state-map-and-list> from the
    original on July 13, 2022. Retrieved July 12, 2022.
271. *^ <#cite_ref-279>* "Federal Elections 2020" <https://www.fec.gov/
    documents/4227/federalelections2020.pdf> (PDF). Federal Election
    Commission <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
    Federal_Election_Commission>. July 2023.
272. *^ <#cite_ref-Inside_Elections_280-0>* Gonzales, Nathan L. (April
    26, 2023). "Initial 2024 Presidential Battleground State Ratings"
    <https://www.insideelections.com/news/article/initial-2024-
    presidential-battleground-state-ratings>. Inside Elections <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inside_Elections>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20230501192642/https://www.insideelections.com/
    news/article/initial-2024-presidential-battleground-state-ratings>
    from the original on May 1, 2023. Retrieved June 30, 2023.
273. *^ <#cite_ref-Sabato's_Crystal_Ball_281-0>* Kondik, Kyle (January 3,
    2024). "The President Race at the Dawn of a New Year" <https://
    centerforpolitics.org/crystalball/articles/the-presidential-race-at-
    the-dawn-of-a-new-year/>. Sabato's Crystal Ball <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sabato%27s_Crystal_Ball>. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20240107025237/https://centerforpolitics.org/
    crystalball/articles/the-presidential-race-at-the-dawn-of-a-new-
    year/> from the original on January 7, 2024. Retrieved January 7, 2024.
274. *^ <#cite_ref-The_Cook_Political_Report_282-0>* "2024 CPR Electoral
    College Ratings" <https://www.cookpolitical.com/ratings/
    presidential-race-ratings>. Cook Political Report <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cook_Political_Report>. December 19, 2023.
    Archived <https://web.archive.org/web/20231220012514/https://
    www.cookpolitical.com/ratings/presidential-race-ratings> from the
    original on December 20, 2023. Retrieved December 19, 2023.
275. *^ <#cite_ref-CNalysis_283-0>* "2024 CNalysis Pres. Forecast"
    <https://projects.cnalysis.com/23-24/president>. CNalysis <https://
    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CNalysis>. December 30, 2023. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20231225012926/https://
    projects.cnalysis.com/23-24/president> from the original on December
    25, 2023. Retrieved January 12, 2024.
276. *^ <#cite_ref-285>* Cohen, Ethan (November 20, 2023). "Commission on
    Presidential Debates announces dates and locations for 2024 general
    election debates" <https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/20/politics/
    presidential-debate-dates/index.html>. /CNN/. Archived <https://
    web.archive.org/web/20231120230006/https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/20/
    politics/presidential-debate-dates/index.html> from the original on
    November 20, 2023. Retrieved November 21, 2023.
277. *^ <#cite_ref-286>* King, Ryan (November 20, 2023). "Presidential
    debates set for Texas, Virginia and Utah as RFK Jr. looks to be
    first independent on stage in 3 decades" <https://nypost.com/
    2023/11/20/news/three-2024-presidential-debates-set-for-texas-
    virginia-utah/>. /New York Post/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231120215239/https://nypost.com/2023/11/20/news/three-2024-
    presidential-debates-set-for-texas-virginia-utah/> from the original
    on November 20, 2023. Retrieved November 21, 2023.
278. *^ <#cite_ref-287>* Oshin, Olafimihan (November 20, 2023). "RFK Jr.
    leads 2024 candidates in favorability poll" <https://thehill.com/
    homenews/campaign/4319127-rfk-jr-leads-2024-candidates-in-
    favorability-poll/>. /The Hill/. Archived <https://web.archive.org/
    web/20231120221320/https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4319127-
    rfk-jr-leads-2024-candidates-in-favorability-poll/> from the
    original on November 20, 2023. Retrieved November 21, 2023.

